
[UNKNOWN]
Oh man, you missed your whole intro!
It'll be okay, I can...
I will be using...
The intro was written, so that's easy.
Okay.
Should we wait for her?
Because it's going to do a character description.
Yes, we should wait for her.
Sorry.
I think you're good.
It was a good start.
Yeah.
I gave myself a C, but I'm pretty hard on myself.
Practice will make perfect.
Exactly.
Coffee.
I'm your Basgar of the... Deckmarnack.
You should know how to spell this, obviously.
Everybody knows how to spell.
even know where the apostrophe went.
Nicole, it's Vazgarh description time.
Man, I'm jostling this half-orc.
Or bullying him already?
I mean, I've got to do it out of character because I can't do things.
Who says you can?
So, um,
Bazgar enters the Wayward Compass as a fairly average size, maybe on a little big end of orc, meaning six foot one, so a little tall, but not the monstrous barbarians that the image of a Rak'thok orc conjures.
He is handsome with strong features,
Again, kind of surprising for the stereotype of this like bestial orc monster from the Far East with a strong like athletes kind of build, compact muscle, strong, but not like bodybuilder, not like gigantic.
Something more functional, faster moving.
He's got small visible tusks.
He's like routinely smiling and grinning.
He-
Is it the welcoming kind of thing or like an orc kind of thing?
Or cocky?
There's a bit of that cocky confidence and there's a lot of just like have fun enjoy life kind of atmosphere.
Like he does not feel like what you would expect a Rackfuck orc to feel like.
So he's not like smiling like have fun with axis and blood kind of smile.
Well, it doesn't.
Look like that!
Okay.
So he looks like he's actually pretty welcoming for an orc.
For an orc, yes.
He looks like he's pretty welcoming.
Apparently, this did not get all of my description stuff, because it doesn't have my clothing on it.
So I'm pulling up my Indie Beyond real quick.
But his hair is asymmetrical.
He has the left side from the temple back shaved close.
And then the rest of his hair is pulled back into big, thick, tight braids, almost like French braid, kind of like big, big braids that go back.
Dragon braids.
And he's got a set of earrings.
In his left ear is a little iron ring with a bird skull hanging from it and two obsidian studs in his right ear.
So there's a little of that Barbarian.
His clothes also kind of speak more to Barbarian.
He's got a lot of furs.
His vest, which he wears, he has a chain shirt when he's wearing armor.
When he's not wearing armor, he doesn't wear a shirt.
He just has a vest, open chested.
And he has a red kind of alligator scale vest
And the rest of his clothing, a lot of it's fur lined.
His backpack has more furs in it.
You can see he's taken off some of his layers.
And he's got like black chain shirt and a pair of weapons, a black battle axe, black iron battle axe with the haft is kind of wood.
that's got a little bit of a red tint to it.
It's like an ironwood.
And the war hammer is something similar.
They're both, they're basically, they're matching weapons, but not in the same, like they're not identical.
They're just kind of like same materials.
His hair is black.
His eyes are kind of a yellow amber.
And he's got a shield that depicts kind of a series of spirit flames around an alligator skull in white.
And then the shield is,
wood with a stretched alligator hide over it that is itself dyed red.
So the shroud design was what, white alligator skull and what flames?
Like spirit flames, like little like spirally wispy kind of flames around it in a circle.
And it's a pretty standard targ shield, like pulled skin over the wood, in this case alligator.
Alligator.
Okay, I'm gonna get a pen real quick.
Okay, so... Did you make an impression when you came in or did you just sit down quietly?
I think his first act when he comes in is to look around, take the place in, kind of get a feel, like I kind of feel like
Like, maybe a hand on the hip, like a very, you know, surveying, getting an idea.
He probably does stand out.
You know, not a whole lot of six foot one people running around taverns, wearing armor and carrying gigantic weapons.
Except for maybe in this tavern.
Yeah, maybe in this tavern, you're right.
He is...
I think he's going to... Is this like... You know what?
Vazgar probably doesn't know.
Uh, he's going to swagger up to the, uh, barkeep because I don't know if he knows how taverns work.
The dwarf, the dwarf, uh, turns to face you after giving an amused look at the, uh, I don't know, the fight, the fights, the fighting stopped.
That's right.
Yeah.
So he doesn't, he just turns to you and he says, how, what can I get for you, sir?
Do you make stew?
It was just, everybody makes stew.
You've got to have stew, right?
Of course.
I'll make these stairs dwarven still.
Sure.
Whatever is good.
I'll try anything, really.
He, um, he steps down from a stool, which you now realize he was on a stool.
The bar is very clearly not meant for dwarves, typically.
So now I would say he's still above the bar.
He's not a hobbit, but he now just seems, you just, it's almost feels like just a little,
Silly just to see a bobbing, bearded man on the other side.
As he walks back, he seems to speak to someone in the back.
And a moment later, he comes back with a bowl of stew.
Excellent.
You sit at the bar, or do you take a seat?
You said there's tables, right?
There's tables on the outside.
On the outside and what the open area is.
For the purpose it leaves the middle open.
For fights that don't break things, yeah.
Got that vibe.
I think Baz will head for a table.
Yeah, I think I'm just gonna head for a table.
How full is this place?
How busy is it?
I would say it's in between.
It's not bustling.
Like, you clearly see these other two folks in here.
But at the same moment, it's not entirely empty.
It's not like you are the only three there.
As I'm heading for a seat, Baz will be looking around, gauging people, because you said this is kind of where outsiders end up.
So is this the sort of place that, like,
adventure-y, fighting-y types, might?
Yes, there is a...
I'm... is that what you call it?
Let me look it up.
Like a job board?
There's a, uh, rip board.
Okay, rip board.
Okay.
On the wall, massive, with postings all along it.
It sort of looks like this.
Convenient.
Very nice.
Um, I like the prop.
Uh, which if you want to get closer, I'll hand it to you.
Yeah, that's definitely on the zoo list.
But I am also surveying to see who in this bar might be capable because I could use like I can't do all this stuff on my own.
I need a party and This seems like the kind of place to look for one you see two individuals that stand down Would I describe yourself?
Okay, so at one of the tables
Probably a little bit off in one of the corners, there is a human woman where when you first look her way, you swear her eyes are the color of blood before you realize it is a trick of the light and they're just a very pale brown.
And the thing that really catches your attention about her is the fact that she's looking back at you.
She's assessing you at the same time you're assessing her.
Like she noticed when you walked in the door and hasn't returned to her own business yet.
Right now she's seated, but she's tall and spare, all sharp angles, softened only by movement.
She's got long, raven-dark hair that looks like she probably ran a comb through it a day or two ago and called it good.
She's wearing an ash-gray tunic over a faded white undershirt, and she has this long, waxed wool jacket.
and this dark charcoal almost black that's reinforced at the cuffs and elbows.
She's got a high collar that's half raised as if more, as if against more than weather.
And you notice it has a orange lining on the inside that as soon as you notice it, it seems like it's immediately gone again.
She has a stained canvas satchel that's
currently still looped around her shoulder and hanging at her side.
And you see there's a couple of books and notes that are sticking up out of it.
And she has the strap like doubly wrapped around herself.
Like it would be hard to take it from her if you had to.
So that's one of the folks you see.
And then the other on the other side.
Taking up the biggest table, there's a single occupant, and at first glance, there still is a statue.
It's only after a few seconds you realize that's actually someone sipping a small cup of some warm drink.
They are covered up, wearing the most obvious thing is a straw hat and a white veil surrounding the hat.
completely covers from their about their like eye line down past their chin and they wear white robes of various fairly like bright white colors um but notably marred with the signs of travel around the feet nothing unnaturally pristine about this character
But their features are obfuscated.
Currently, yep.
Currently.
And they seem to be patiently waiting after having placed an order of food.
And they're much less fastidious about their belongings as like there is a bamboo flute kind of just like setting on one side of the table and a staffed
Propped on another side of the table and occupying one of the many chairs of this otherwise empty table is a Dwarven shield.
Um, I don't know What would be the the other work?
Place not as there's people but the Garthok No, no, not all work.
Um, it is a garak.
Yeah a garak shield taking up a
one of the seats, as if it is somehow a stranger even to this person.
Do you have your veil on?
I have my veil pulled.
So are we still going to do the mixed orders?
How do we approach that?
Joseph that I got my stew already.
I mean, you could finish it and...
If I have to get you all to come together, I'm making a stupid NPC to do it.
We have a plan.
We have a plan.
We just need to retcon some of your orders.
Yeah, we need to retcon a decision or tie you into something.
It's either what you order more or you go to look down.
It's not a stew in your hand, but...
But, yeah.
Yeah, I think since you're waiting on food, we'll do that.
He didn't put a veggie, he didn't put a meat in it.
I think I'm going to, like, Pascal's going to not really pay attention to the stew, head over to a table.
He's going to begin with food and then start doing business.
What did he end up with, Nicole?
So it was not a stew of any type that you received, but a very particular salad.
Where am I looking?
Okay, so he looks at it, stares for a second as he realizes it's a salad, it's not a stew, it's a bowl filled with veggies, which is probably not what he ordered.
I don't know if they don't understand what Stu means, but, like, that seems a pretty bad departure.
And he doesn't know what these artichoke things are.
Like, he's never seen this before.
Oh, for Bazgar, it's the full joke.
Artichoke hearts and watercress.
Yeah, he doesn't recognize any of this stuff.
And he goes, what the fuck is this?
Meanwhile, Sabriel
your meal is delivered and set in front of you uh and what you find is placed in front of you is a bowl you want to read it yeah okay i had to write it out here so bear with it's this description down here all right uh my food arrives it is a bowl of dark stew with bits of beef floating potato and what looks like fragments of bone a large marrow bone sticks out of the bowl like a monolith
Several slices of bread sit to the side with honey spread and dark purple jam, a mug of steaming red liquid rests beside it softly wubbly.
Oh no, we both ordered stew.
Did you guys all get the wrong order?
Yeah, that's the joke.
You also got hot tea and red bean pastries.
Hot tea and red bean pastries, oh yeah.
I don't know if Bazgar has ever seen a pastry because I can't imagine they have ovens in the back, Mark.
Like that's, that's not a thing you put in a swamp.
And what arrived in front of me?
Um, so I was going to do a, uh, a stew as well, but I can't imagine they serve two different stews.
But my thought is like greasy, heavy meat.
It's got like the one little slice of carrot as the only veggie in it.
It's just like,
Gross, heavy, greasy, like, kind of unpleasant stew.
Lot of broth, lot of liquid.
But it's just the stew, there's no bread, right?
No, he didn't get bread.
Okay, that's it.
Order wrong.
All three characters take their food back to the bar.
What?
This is not stew.
I'm missing a few things with mine.
I tried the bone, but I think it chipped a tooth.
Oh, I see the problem.
Here you go.
I still don't think this is stew.
That does look like stew, actually.
What do you mean?
It's way too wet.
There's too much liquid.
There's no vegetables.
There's... Oh, I'll taste it.
It gives it a try.
Like, it's not terrible, but like, it's not still.
Well, what if we shared?
I've never tried that.
I'm sorry, we don't serve blood here.
Fucking racist.
I've got plenty of room at the table.
Come on, let's um, I would like to try more of that, actually.
So, we'll take our plates and join
with Cibrel at their table?
Yes.
Well, thank you for the invitation.
At least you have vegetation.
That is always a good thing to eat.
You two are the only people in this bar who are interesting.
I don't know about that.
I mean, everybody's got a story to tell.
Hey!
All the NPCs brushed off in one go.
Absolutely.
Where do you come from, Dark Scary Woman?
Just...to the south.
To the south is ocean.
No, no, to the south is...from Ardenthor?
Never you tell me west.
You need to go from your west.
Never you tell me walk with your west.
From the west, like the southwest.
Okay.
Sure.
Um, are you actually not gonna wear your...
I had made a whole map.
I don't know where Ardoford is when I think it's the problem.
I had to bring it.
Chris and me and I forgot to bring it.
Oh my god, we read so many things.
You want me to print off the map?
We did.
We did.
And we forgot to bring it.
We framed it.
We framed it for you.
Oh, that was so cool, too.
Okay.
No, Arden Ford is up here.
Right?
Yes, so yeah.
Arden Ford's all the way up here.
Oh, I guess it is.
I can be south.
Oh, I thought Arden Ford was...
Okay, I thought it was far east.
Far east as east gets.
I was about to say, I thought I was wrong about that.
I thought I was safe in my answer.
Yeah, you're southwest.
Okay.
Then instead of south is ocean, you're just not dead south.
Oh, I am from south too.
I'm more like the Southwest.
I suspect I am farther south than you.
Yes.
Yes.
Where are you from?
I am Rakhlin.
I am from the Dachmarnach.
My introductions.
My name is Bazgar, son of Bazrak, of the Dachmarnach.
It's a pleasure to meet you, Bazgar.
I'm Marwin.
Marwin Ashcroft.
A pleasure.
And you, a strange veil.
In the middle of handing each of you a red bean pastry.
Oh, introductions.
I am Sabriel.
Did you take your veil off yet?
No.
No?
Okay.
There's too many people here.
Oh, do you gotta tell me?
How are we gonna eat?
You're gonna tap the towel when you take it off.
I'm just saying, it's gonna be a seed.
I wanna pull up the world map so I have that.
Marwin takes a bite of the pastry and her eyes like light up.
This is really good.
What's in this?
Beans.
Oh, that explains it.
It was familiar tasting, but like not the same.
Different kind of bean, I assume.
Most of the bread we have down south is flatter.
What?
It's not really thin.
Cooked on a griddle so it does not rise as much.
Your bread is leavened and cooked in ovens and it is a little bit of a different thing.
It is interesting to try.
This is very flaky.
It is not what I expected.
Are you not gonna eat?
I suppose I shall.
I think for the sake of eating politely, I will go ahead and remove my veil and hat and set it to one side.
It doesn't take long for pretty much everyone in the room to just start staring at you.
Why?
What's different about Sabriel?
Sabriel isn't elf.
They are
Almost, I'm gonna go with almost like white jade looking.
They are very, very pale.
They have incredibly long, longer than, ears longer than any other elf you've seen.
Are we talking about like anime elf length?
Probably, yeah.
Okay.
Very long.
Due to the particularities of this elf as opposed to the rest of their kind,
Um, I'm going to go with the, the, the coloring, like the seasonal coloring for my ladder.
Um, they actually have Jade green hair and just like, uh, like when, when they eat like the first warm bowl of stew and get sort of like that sort of heat flush, um, it actually like flushes green underneath their cheeks.
The thing is, is they are so magnificently duty.
above, beyond anything that is, uh, seems mortally possible where it's like an angel that deposited in the room with us.
Like, yes.
Yeah.
And so what is happening as soon as she does her veil is that the bystanders around are just like, can't understand what they're looking at.
Exactly.
And so you actually even see like a guy or a girl walking down the steps, tripping on themselves, like trying to like, it's really awkward and uncomfortable for just for a moment before people try to just kind of pretend like not to make it socially awkward.
Like not to gawk at like this angel that is now in the room.
I'm going to just like carefully sort of lean down a little bit so that Bazgar's blocking like
Most of the view of people.
Yeah, that's fair.
I sort of leaned one side.
The most, literally the most beautiful person either you have ever seen in your entire lives.
I think Marwan was like mid-bite into the pastry and it's kind of just stopped and is staring.
And to be clear, this isn't just men that are attracted.
Both men and women alike are like... Well, because they are...
It's very difficult to tell.
They're very androgynous, right?
There's no obvious indicator.
Like, it's a very, could go either way, look.
I think with mouths still kind of full, I'm gonna ask Daniel.
I'm sorry, what was that?
I'm sorry, we were doing introductions.
Oh, Sabriel.
Sabriel.
You have never seen an elf, like this elf.
We've seen elves.
Where are you from, Sabrio?
West.
I'm from the West.
Like, really far west?
A fair distance.
Well, I can honestly say I've never met anyone like you, and that is a good thing, because interesting people are the best people to bring into your lives.
I agree.
I've not gotten as far south as I've heard of your people.
And in the Dark Marnack we are very south, far even for the Ratlog.
I was thinking of heading down there.
One thing to note, the bartender is not attracted to you.
You don't look attracted to dwarves.
That's why dwarves and elves fight.
Your hotness is wrong!
I do not automatically assume everyone's attracted to me.
I mean, it's probably mostly true, but that's a rude thing to assume.
It's a rude thing to assume.
Dwarves is the only race your characters come across, maybe even to the point where you have an extra comfort of talking to them, even though they don't too much particularly like you, just simply because...
They don't make it weird.
They don't make it weird.
So you're already planning on leaving town?
Because there's a lot to do here, a lot of interesting people and things and...
I'm on no particular timetable.
I'm what you would think of as a perpetual traveler.
I simply ran out of resources once I got this far.
Yes, that is a big problem.
that a lot of people have been having, myself included.
Speaking of which, I need to go check the job board.
I will be right back.
Thank you for your company.
Do you mind if I come with you?
I was actually thinking about doing the same.
I was running into a similar problem where the coin I had is not sufficient for my purposes.
Yes, yes, let's all be poor together.
Let's go.
Okay, here's the job board.
Ritboard!
Okay.
Sheep raids.
Urgent help needed.
To any capable hands, goblins have been raiding my flocks.
Three nights running.
Twelve ewes gone.
I can't lose anymore.
They come at dusk from the west scrublands near the old ruins.
Seventy gold to see them stopped.
Find me at Redwick Farm two miles west on the old cart road from Marin, Redwick.
Or Lumber Camp clearance.
Spiders.
Giant spiders.
Old Lumber Camp.
This one is just
Yeah, three miles south, Millers Creek, need camp clear, tools retrieved, 80 gold on completion.
So 70 for fighting goblins to save sheepies or to prevent more raids.
80 for clearing out spiders and recovering tools from a lumber camp.
And it's, that's, that's, it's big spiders.
I didn't calculate it.
I didn't, I overlooked this, but that's after split.
Oh, like each.
Oh, okay, so.
Okay, so it would be, yeah, okay.
And then, border patrol.
Notably it says mornings only to ask for the job.
Oh yeah, you're right.
Mornings only.
Worth noting.
What time of day is it right now?
Are we still early in the day?
Given that I haven't said, I'll let you guys choose.
I think it should be mornings so that we still have that option to ask the person right away.
Okay, yeah, morning.
That's a good time to start an adventure.
I mean, it's also an inn.
You can always... That's true.
Yeah, we can stay over.
We're poor.
We are poor.
Oh, that's true.
I'm not...
I'm not... Can't stay at an inn poor, but...
It depends on how much they charge.
It depends on how much they charge.
They pay very well here.
They might charge a lot here too.
Well, I probably could still...
I have like 12 gold or so.
No, wait.
No, I think I spent most of it, actually.
I think I retroactively went back and spent more.
I have at least 11 gold, but that's...
I don't remember how much I have, and I don't know where to find it.
Oh!
Okay, never mind, that's silver.
I have a little gold.
And then the last option is Border Patrol, Undead Sighting.
Attention capable adventurers, undead spotted in an eastern valley near Old Battlefield.
Four to five walking toward the city.
They must be stopped and properly led to rest.
75 gold.
Inquire with Wren Caldera or Border Patrol.
Ask at the bar.
Torrin knows where to find me.
Assume Torrin, then, is our wayward compass barkeeper.
Well, there's a job we can take without a big morning.
We could always do that and then, depending on how exhausted we are, maybe take a second job.
How big do you suppose these spiders are?
Well,
They probably wouldn't put it on an adventuring board if it was for little baby spiders, like normal spiders.
So it's probably decent-sized spiders.
Certainly not as big as the... What's your people's column?
Dachmarnex?
Swamp spiders?
Yeah, certainly not as big as the Dachmarnex way.
Oh, definitely not.
You're going to figure out how funny would it be if in the job description it provided green boots.
No, no, no.
Swamp spiders...
If they're swamp spiders, this would be very bad.
I don't think they would pay only 80 gold for that.
But, uh...
These are all fighty things.
Are you two fighty people?
No, not at all.
Um...
Depends on how you define fighty.
Okay, let us, um...
Because I get the feeling, no offense, that you do not do a lot of sword swinging.
No.
Can you handle yourself in a combat situation in some way or another?
We might find out.
I do not know what that means.
But, anyway, okay, let's lay this on the table if you two are actually interested in taking job stuff.
I am looking to do some Ruin Delving.
But I do not have the finances to finance the expedition.
This is obviously a problem that I am looking to rectify by doing some smaller jobs first.
And it also gets a little bit of experience getting out in the field, learning the lay of the land, and killing bad things.
And that's always fun.
So if you have interest in job with me, I would happily take the help.
I'm very good at patching up.
Oh, that is a useful skill.
I have some ways in which I can contribute.
You are very mysterious, I understand.
I'm most interested in the giant spiders personally.
I think there are some interesting reagents that I might be able to harvest from them.
All right.
I continue to not really know what that means, but I kind of am starting to get the feeling that it is not my wheelhouse.
I do not understand it, so it is not a big deal.
If you are interested in giant spiders, I have not strong opinions.
I am happy to fight basically anything.
It does seem like the other jobs are more healthy people type things, which I am always a fan of, but
I'm curious to see what the undead look like.
Have you never seen an animated skeleton before?
It doesn't come up as often as you would think.
Really?
Oh.
Okay.
I mean... As a healer, I try to avoid death in general.
Well, it is not impossible that we can take multiple of these jobs at different times, obviously.
So, maybe we start with spiders because you have strong interest and I am more ambivalent than that.
This one's on a time table.
Oh, that is true.
Because they have to be stopped before they reach the city.
Yes, um...
I'm good if we want to...
The giant spiders probably aren't going to go anywhere.
Yeah.
We're interested in checking out the skeletons.
We can.
Technically it does not say skeletons.
They could be zombies.
Or ghosts.
Oh, that is fair.
If they're ghosts, that's a problem.
But I don't think that they are because we're laying them to rest.
And that kind of implies there's a body to do that with.
I hope.
Otherwise Axe is going to have a problem.
Cast my vote for...
Border Patrol.
I think that's a good idea.
It helps people, it's time sensitive, and like you said, the spiders aren't going anywhere.
And I could use quite a bit of one.
They're likely just going to nest and make webs and... Do spider twigs, yes.
Yes.
Alright.
For this, we talk to the bar looking for a Ren Caldor.
So, Barkeep, are you this tauren?
Is it tauren?
Torrin.
Ask at the bar Torrin says to find me.
We actually don't know the dwarf's name.
Yeah.
The dwarf looks confused.
And then he looks at what note, or you wave the note at him, and he's like, he doesn't know how to spell.
It's Thorgrim.
Thorgrim.
Yeah.
T-H-O-R-G-H.
He looks mildly annoyed at the note once he figures out the confusion.
Yeah, I can point you to his way.
He works at the Eastern patrol.
You'll find him, he shows you basically a patrol tower on that side.
You're gonna have to leave the city and walk around to get up and climb the hill.
Easiest way is to get to the third loft before you leave the city, so you're already up as high as you can before you start climbing up.
It's gonna be near the top.
Can't miss it.
Thank you.
Does your inn provide stabling services?
Stable?
Oh, stable services.
Of course.
I wish to, um, reserve accommodations for
My animal.
However long it takes to do this mission.
Gold?
You give him gold?
Yeah.
He takes the gold, he comes off the stool, walks around, heads outside and starts handing to your animal.
Okay.
It's the white one.
You're the pony, right?
They're tall for a pony.
Well...
Um, he's a bit fussy.
Only whole grains.
Only whole grains.
Only whole grains.
Wolf looks at you with a look.
This isn't some fancy elven inn.
You can try to persuade him.
I've been unsuccessful.
Gosh.
Too cold.
Takes it at your koi and then takes the horsey, the pony around back.
He grumbles the whole way.
Something about elves and being fancy and stupid.
You're not quite sure.
You don't speak Dwarven?
No, I don't speak Dwarven.
You don't know Dwarven.
I don't always grumble.
We do.
From your perspective,
You don't know Dwarven, but you know when they're cursing at you.
From your two perspective, you do hear him grumbling about elves being overly fancy and fancy elves being probably something about the more, I don't know, what does Dwarven think of a very fancy elf?
Cause he doesn't think you're beautiful.
Cause his measurement of beauty is completely on a different scale.
high on their ivory towers and stuff like that.
Don't know the real world.
Yes.
Cause like, pony with whole grain, it's a pony.
It'll eat anything.
Shut up, lady.
Or person.
You have not tried feeding this pony yet.
No, I know.
Well, he hasn't either.
Spoiling ponies.
I get it.
If this pony was into dwarves, a dwarf of pony would let it die.
Or learn to eat more than I would, than one else.
Well, it also enjoys wild flowers, but I figured that would be hard to come by.
I'll take care of your pony, he yells at you in English.
Stupid elf.
So, as we walk outside, there is a call of a crow, and you see Marwyn turn and look up at where there is a crow resting on the inside, as if it was calling her attention to it.
And she kind of looks up at it, rolls her eyes, and then starts marching in the direction we were supposed to go in.
And you watch the crow take off and start to follow slash wait her.
Oh, yeah, okay, that's gonna go great.
Oh, that went great.
Really?
18.
18?
I'll send you a note.
Oh, I do put my
Hack back and on to travel.
Especially through the city.
Just more comfortable this way.
I understand.
It's best not to draw too much attention to ourselves.
Really?
If... How do I phrase this?
We are looking to... Well, I am looking to do the Ruin Expedition and I think...
I've never done this, but I think that requires like resources and possibly like assistance and these things that it seems like it would be easier if you have a reputation.
Reputation is a wonderful thing.
A reputation can also be a very dangerous thing.
It depends on what attention you've attract, Bhaskar.
I do not think there are such things as negative attention.
We should be careful.
That said, I also am very interested in the Romans.
Interesting.
And if this job goes well, I'd be interested in doing another and maybe putting our finances together to go exploring.
You seem like the type.
Do you speak ancient?
Read it.
I do.
I need somebody who can, because I cannot do this.
Excellent, excellent.
You can call it like a second language to me.
A second language?
Huh.
My second language is not quite so fancy.
Excellent, we have ourselves a little party.
But anyway, let us march onward, and I was going to say something, but I don't remember what it was.
It had something to do with what you had just said, but then you talked about the ancient and it all fell out of my head.
So anyway, we move on.
Yeah, we're gonna head up to the word tower, the watch tower.
Joe is still typing.
That's a short message, I got it.
Okay.
So you're heading up to the tower?
I do not believe I actually saw that.
This seems unlikely, so I'm going to pretend it didn't happen.
So you guys go up to the tower.
You guys have to first leave the city and you start heading up the hills.
It becomes very unlike the mountains.
On the other side of the valley, these mountains are much more worn down.
And though it takes some climbing, it's not like rope climbing.
It's more like occasionally a boulder to requires a little bit of hand.
It's hiking through a mountain rather than rock climbing.
Right.
Yeah.
And you see a watchtower that stands above everything.
tactically positioned in a way that if any forces were trying to climb this side of the hill, they would see them coming along from a far away.
Unlike the eastern borders, the western borders, the eastern borders are a field of trees all the way up the hill and all the way down.
It gets denser, it goes further into the more you head towards the valley, the denser it gets.
So as you approach the tower, it falls out of view because the tree canopy starts covering up your perspective, but you know that it's at the highest height.
So you just continue to head upwards, because upwards will eventually leave you there.
And how far did I say?
It's not like a day's journey, is it?
It's a ways out.
It's a ways out.
It was a ways out, but you didn't say like,
days or anything.
No, because the city's built right next to it, so we'll say probably a four-hour hike.
Ah, good car deal.
It's an effort.
Let me get the...
Especially once we're outside of the city, in addition to the crow that continues to seem to be hovering around us, Marwyn will pull out of whatever pockets
a ferret and let it wander loose.
And it's kind of just like, we'll wander ahead, check something out, occasionally like scares another animal or gets scared itself and runs back to her and like runs back up her shoulder, like up her leg and up onto her shoulder, things like that.
She occasionally gives like a little bit of bread or talks to it.
The thing is cute.
What is it?
Oh, this is Flicker.
Flicker.
Is that a species or is that a name?
That's a name.
He's a ferret.
Okay, I will try and remember this.
They're funny-looking little creatures, like a rat, but like Q's are.
Which is saying something, because I like rats.
Does everybody have animals but me?
I feel a little left out.
I think so, and I'll kind of take Flicker and let him run up onto your shoulder.
Oh, that is a little scamper with little claws, but not with pain.
I like this.
Flicker the...
Yup, look at the ferret.
I feel a little left out about the whole animal thing.
I'm glad I have a fetter now.
I kid that, of course.
Marvin and Flickr kind of exchange a look, and Flickr buries himself further into Baskarts and says, yep, this is true.
As if he's messing with her back.
He'll come back when he's hungry, he always does.
Okay, so, um, out of what seems to be, you know, because as soon as, because of the density of the forest, uh, you arrive all of a sudden, because I don't know where the wall of the tower just appears.
Um, there's no door because.
Um, no, there's just doors.
This is stone opening.
It's very clearly human construction.
You can tell the difference between dwarves and human construction because dwarves like big blocks.
They like to make sure you know who built it and they were here.
Well, humans like more tameable, more reasonably moved blocks and tends to look more like brickwork than like stonework.
So you see, and then there's a opening and stairs that are leaning up presumably.
Your acquaintance is he is actually on duty, is your understanding, so he's probably at the top of the tower.
I'm going to call up to the tower rather than just breaking into a possibly military guard tower and yell, um, hello, Mr. R. Caldor, is that it?
We are coming for the job.
Can we come in?
You hear from the canopy above.
Yes, come in.
Excellent.
Do you all head up?
Yep, absolutely.
They're a little tight to head up because the tower is built to defend people from people coming up.
So you go on a single file.
But once you get to the top, it opens up pretty wide to an observation area where you can see far out into down below in the valley where you
The town is not going to be, because of the force, one or two people could very easily get snuck up to here, but an army would not be able to.
And you see a human in their 30s.
He is wearing the border patrol outfit.
So he works for the government or he works as a soldier.
One of the things that
stands out on him is that he wears the emblem.
Let me see, where is it at?
He wears the, yes, he wears his grandfather's war medal on his chain around his neck, very prominently worn.
Clean shaven, early thirties.
I need to figure out
Oh, this is an older print.
You don't have the name, the proper name.
Uh, Ryan Caldor?
No, I meant like the name of his grandpa.
His granddaddy.
Billy.
Would it be on the medal?
Um, hold on.
I don't know about that.
No, I need a role play.
I can't role play the person.
Any day I don't remember my grandpa's dad.
Feel it awkward.
Um, so, let's see.
So yeah, making Pascar go first.
Good.
I like going first.
Honestly, Pascar, you seem to be comfortable in speaking with strangers.
It is not difficult.
You just talk and then they either shut up or they talk back.
You have a very refreshingly simple outlook on the world, Vascar.
It's going to be a whole campaign of us.
Ah, I got it now.
Yes, it's the emblem on the token.
I mean, it stands out.
You can see it.
Like, it's pretty clearly there, and it is of a valley.
like, uh, like kind of like a iconic value of the V going into it.
Um, it stands out from the rest of his uniform because it looks like it's been in battle as in it's torn.
It looks old.
It does not look like it's from his, it does not look like it's a standard equipment.
And if it was a standard equipment, it looks 120 years old.
So it really stands out.
He, um, he gives you a,
um, more of a salute greetings than a normal person would, but it's almost half of what it would be because you're not military.
Right.
I'm so glad you answered.
Oh, happy.
Yeah.
I'm so glad you answered my, my summons.
I really appreciate it.
I take it your venture type.
I'm looking to become one.
Yes.
I have fought before, if that is the question.
What color is your skin?
Gray.
Gray, okay.
Yes, we're adventurers.
Did you come up- We're adventurers.
Oh, yes, I guess it does say that.
Good, very good.
You're a very odd couple.
Group.
You got discounted, I'm sorry.
I'm in the back, it happens a lot.
Okay, okay, okay, hold on.
Do you, uh... ...question?
No, uh, ragtag.
Does that matter?
Is this a problem?
Hopefully not a problem.
No, I just, uh...
I'm not going to make it a problem.
No problem, no problem.
Excellent.
You're giving me a service, I appreciate it.
I'm looking for my grandfather's.
I believe my grandma, she passed away recently, and she wanted her last wish was to be buried with her husband, my grandpa.
I've been searching this forest where he defended the back door during the war.
I haven't found him yet, but I suspect that he may very likely be one of some of the struggling walking dead.
Is that just something that commonly happens out this far?
Oh, were you from?
Far west.
Not him from, okay.
Cauldron, let me see, is that how you say the name, Cauldron?
Kondrian, the forces, they often had raised dead.
They brought them back to help surplus their forces.
After the war, many of those who were reanimated, or maybe they weren't, the residual magic that caused some of the fallen to come back.
without orders or magic or anything of the such to give them direction, they generally walk towards their home.
So they want, my understanding is they want to go home and they can't.
So we have to put them back to rest.
Your grandfather fought the Imperium then?
Yes.
An honorable service.
This is very good.
We would be happy to help him rest.
You sure you're not a western orc?
Yes, I am very sure I'm not a western orc.
Regardless, it doesn't matter.
Um, how will we identify your grandfather?
You speak common very well.
I am going to leave now.
That's our staff.
He takes- he- he- he signals to his emblem.
My father, my grandpa, was part of the Ridgeward Battalion.
He would have this battalion on him.
They respond to familiar things.
Can we borrow your grandfather's medal?
Well, persuasion check.
You're good at that.
You're the best in the party at that, at the moment.
First roll.
Well, not second roll.
It is her first roll, though.
Second roll.
Twenty.
Oh, yeah.
We're off to a great start.
He doesn't even question just how you asked.
I imagine you asked it in a way that was very understanding from the voice and tone alone.
Yes, it would be the compassionate association.
If we're to put him to rest and he cannot reach his home,
Perhaps we can bring a bit of his home to him.
So he takes it off.
You know, he's about to say something, but he realizes you already know to return it.
And you kind of like, he hands it to you like the same way you would imagine a fallen soldier falls and they have like...
They fold up the flag and do the like, yeah.
Yeah, that's how he hands it to you.
I must stay guard.
It is my duty.
I'll be here on your turn.
Are you the only guard in this tower?
Or do you not have a partner?
Do they not?
My rotations are every eight hours.
One out of war time so they don't see the need of multiple people here.
That explains it.
But, as said, you don't want to be completely
Completely trusting of Caldrian.
No, definitely not.
You are staring at me like I said something weird.
Just curious.
He does look at you kind of weirdly, but not too much.
Well, it's a very big forest.
Do you have any idea where we should begin?
He points down to a spot on the other side of the valley.
I see movement over there most days.
I suspect there are dead in there space.
There are steep cliffs there.
They are unable to crawl up them in their current state.
So they might be stuck.
That makes sense.
Well, we will do this thing and we will take care of laying to rest of your ancestor.
It will be our armour.
And if you are not in the tower when we return, where will we find you to return the level?
Come back the following day.
I work a eight hour shift.
If you cannot complete it in the next four hours, I will be here at the same eight hours the next day.
There we go.
Okay.
After we leave the tower, I'm actually going to look to Bhaskar and ask,
Do the Imperium use a lot of necromancers?
Is that a common kind of magic of theirs?
Are you serious?
Neither of them are from the Imperium.
I thought this was very common knowledge.
Yes, they're powerful necromancers and many of them.
They're very dangerous.
Interesting.
Very interesting.
It is disturbing how little you seem to know about the Imperium.
Southwest the West is an important part of that.
I suppose that is fair you have not had to fight them Ritualistically Do I have any common practices in dealing with the undead or is that not really so much a thing where I come from?
No, I
I'll have to send you a message.
You're going to have to send me a message, because that's...
I don't know that I've ever seen a dead person.
Lutes for a thousand years, never sees a corpse.
Nobody where she's from, where they're from, die.
I know, I just love the different perspectives because we can have these moments like, yeah, do they have necromancers there?
Yes.
We thought everybody knew that.
There may be
Sometimes in which, uh, yeah, okay.
It's not the best writing, sorry.
No, it's okay.
It's probably been a very long time since I've come across something like that.
But we, yeah, okay, I understand.
Okay.
Secrets.
We can come across them from the top of the cliff if they can't climb.
It should be, it should be easily dealt with from a distance.
This is good strategy.
We will see what the terrain is like, and yes, if we can approach from above and rain death upon their heads, then this is what we will do.
Once they have been dead, and are dead again, what do we do with them?
We lay them to rest.
I'm hoping, I was really hoping you knew how to do that.
Do we?
I believe the thing.
If I miss, he does want to bury.
Oh yeah, that was to bury.
So we find the one that is his grandmother.
Yes, and that body we need to bring back with us too.
Presumably re-dead.
Correct.
I believe you have a nature check if you want to find this location successfully.
I can help that.
But I'd actually like to do, Joe, if this, if you would permit me, as we're going along, because we're in a forest, right?
I'm going to take a little bit of time with their permission.
I would like to ritually cast Speak with Animals.
And I'm going to start to offer bits of food to some of the local wildlife, have little like bird calls or
Chittering conversations, I like to use that to enhance my natures.
I'm gonna try to get some general directions for, from the animals in the area, what's, what might be disturbing the forest or causing problems.
I wanna take it from a medium roll to an easy roll.
Okay.
I was fishing for advantage, but I'll take that too.
Yep.
Would it be all right if I gave you a bit of a boost?
Is this Sabriel asking Marwin?
What do you have in mind?
It's always better if you try something with a little bit of light.
And I don't mean that as the future.
I'm just going to touch your shoulder and give you guidance.
OK. That's a D4, right?
D4 to any ability check.
OK.
And the thing Marwin says when I'm offering the bits of food, you hear her say, speak friend, I listen.
I'll have to come up with a verbal component for this, but that's, I don't have that specifically designed yet.
Yep, our luck has happened.
I'm gonna go ahead and burn my very first heroic inspiration, because I rolled a natural one.
And I have that because I'm a human.
Human.
Much better.
So I took my natural one to a 15, which becomes 20, with the guidance a 23, Joe.
OK, yeah, you.
Marlin is very clearly attuned to forests and seems to be able to commune with the animals to precisely navigate to the cliff in which below you see the four
Well, maybe five undead.
It's a little unclear with all of the shrubs.
How high above them are we?
I would say, tell me how high you want to be and pick high or low.
I don't want them to be further than 60 feet away.
You are 120 feet.
Yep.
So my strategy isn't going to work from here.
It's that you do see a ledge halfway down.
That might take some skill to navigate him.
If you have a rope.
Or a lot of skill if you don't have a rope.
I have not only a rope but a climbing kit so I can anchor the rope
climb down, you guys can follow on the rope, and we can fight them from the ledge.
Uh, very well.
Climbing a rope can't be that hard.
No, it's easy.
Perhaps Bazdar should go first.
Bazdar should go first.
So I don't have to deal with three roles.
I will have a coordination role on a person, and I believe, hold on,
Yeah, I'm gonna... Is persuasion a skill in this game?
Yes.
Yes.
So this isn't so much a climbing problem, but being able to coordinate your two friends who are not very good at climbing.
Oh.
So I'm gonna make it a persuasion check for you.
Ha ha!
I am proficient at that.
Oh, excellent.
And so it's really, like, the climb is, if you know what you're doing, you can't mess this up.
However, you have to instruct to others who don't know what you're doing with your climbing kit.
There was an error on my character.
Unless I'm misunderstanding your skill sets.
I have no proficiency in athletics or acrobatics, so yeah.
I don't think Marwin's ever been called upon to actually climb a rope.
Use ropes, yes.
Climb a rope?
Why would I ever have to do that?
Not something I've done in recent memory.
Elevation isn't a big thing where I come from.
Oh, well, to be fair, I do come from the mountains.
I'm sure I've done it before, but just not recently.
I am mistaken.
I am not proficient in persuasion at this level.
I'm picking that up at three.
So this is going to be interesting.
You are a little guidance.
So before you go, I will tell you the difficulty here is easy.
Okay.
This is a DC 10.
Could I argue that this is investigation because it is intelligently trying to figure out, like it's problem solving.
It's trying to figure out how to get them both down the rope safely as opposed to speaking to them, as opposed to like convincing them to do it.
I don't think so.
Okay, it doesn't matter.
I'm equally good at both skills.
Okay.
I just think it sounds like an intelligence thing to me, but that is actually a 16.
Okay.
Yeah.
So, cause in this case, um, you are having to verbally communicate to Christine.
Yeah, it's leadership stuff.
Yeah.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And so with a 16, you find that, make sure, um, but Bazgar, Bazgar, Bazgar is quite competent in leading you on how to traverse the vote down.
And at first you're a little concerned avoid, but his sturdy,
and convincing Menier gives you the confidence to use the tools to get down to the ledge safely.
I still double-checked your knot before I caught it on my own.
I trusted you completely.
Not that I caught it the other party.
From here, you can't really identify if any of these skeletons are the one you are looking for, but you are in a prime position to eliminate them.
Before we do so, can we try to locate the one which may be?
Cause they're not like, they're just skeleton, right?
So they're not like very obviously different from each other.
Now that is an investigation check if you want to do that.
You'll be great at this.
I'm going to guidance myself.
I think I can do this.
I think I can do this.
I'm going to hold the war medallion up.
That's a cold dice.
These are my elven dice.
Okay, nice.
And these are my seasonal dice.
So I'm playing on a wild run.
I'm in spring mode.
Okay.
Themes.
Themes.
That's really bad.
Five, four.
The brush is just too dense for you to be able to find this medallion through the shrubbery.
I don't think they can see it from here.
While you're doing that, Maru is taking a different approach as she seems to be focused on, okay, we're about to get into a fight here.
You see her, she inhales deeply and fire appears in her hand.
That is a good trick.
I've got this, I'm gonna pull out a hand axe.
The crow flies to a vantage point so that they can observe.
This is a kind of long shot, I don't...
I purposely don't look at the crow as I'm going to attempt to hurl my produced flame at the neuro-skeleton.
Is that the same crow?
Fair enough.
What was the crow?
What's with the crow?
It's probably a different crow.
You can't keep secrets already.
It's not a secret.
It's just there was a crow.
It's just weird.
Weird bird.
All right, so Joe, how do you want to do this?
Are we entering initiative or?
It's following us.
Yeah, there's no initiative.
Oh, we're going to support.
Is that the thing?
The crew?
You just keep birds without me?
You're going to have to get a surprise round.
But we'll use the initiative to determine which of you are going first for your surprise round.
Sounds good.
I got a dirty 20.
I got a 21.
Nine.
Alright, surprise round.
I am going to pull a hand axe.
flip it up in the air, catch it, and then do a throw.
It has a disadvantage because I'm at the maximum possible range.
We're at 60 feet, right?
Yeah.
Okay, good.
Okay.
Oh, that's actually not terrible.
That is a 15 to hit.
15.
Yep, that hits him.
I am applying Vex, so if I don't kill it, I will have advantage on my next throw.
I only have a few of these, but I have multiple, so it's okay.
That is 10 damage, 10 slashing.
Jesus.
10 damage?
Oh, wait, hold on.
Duelist probably doesn't apply.
Dueling does apply.
Does?
I'm pretty sure it does, I'm going to throw him up on there.
Oh, I think actually, I think you're right.
So yeah, that is 10 damage.
That's a lot of damage.
Is it slicing?
Slashing, yes.
10 damage?
That was almost max though.
That was almost max.
Don't expect that kind of damage from the rest of us.
Yeah.
He's kind of like looking down, kind of inspecting his work because we're at max range.
This isn't, this is not easy combat, but like he seems proud of himself.
Like hit a bullseye from that far away, nailed the thing.
He's preening a bit.
Good job.
Marwin thinks back to a time when she like threw a rock at like a pond and missed the pond.
Okay, so I think it's your turn.
Then it would go to me.
It did not drop the Skeleton.
No.
Okay.
But it almost did.
I guess I'm trying to target the same one.
How about an eight?
Eight?
Let me see.
There's no way, Joe.
I want to see, do you get bonuses if you have high ground?
No, that's only in Baldur's Gate, technically.
Okay.
Unless you decide to give us some kind of arbitrary advantage.
Well, if it's the house rule, it'll be a four-evil rule.
Yeah.
Don't feel like you need to cobble this, Joe.
We're fine.
We're just level one.
Yeah, we're just level one.
We're gonna miss a lot.
Yeah.
We're gonna miss.
So I think there's that flashback memory of Marwin taking the rock and throwing it and it failing to go into the water and then
Cut to the present moment and she hurls the fire.
It sort of like goes off the cliff and straight down.
Uh-huh.
It's a surprise round.
The skeletons would have gone, but if you take your surprise, go ahead.
Saber is going to try to summon some flame.
So, Savior Flame.
Should we just try to make it look like it came off of yours?
Like a little spark came off of yours?
But it's going to be a Dexterity Savings Throw at the one that Bazgar hit before.
13.
Wait, oh, 1.
Alright.
So 1d8 radiant damage.
Does that hit more than one?
Or does it hit one?
It's single target.
So I hit radiant, but that's...
I mean max damage, so eight radiant damage on a skeleton.
Same one?
Yeah.
Holy damage!
How does it die with that?
It incinerates.
Incinerates?
Yeah.
Like the bone and everything?
Yeah.
You know I hear, right?
There's four of them.
So I need, if I roll one, I re-roll.
So...
He never said what condition he wanted the body in.
You can bury ashes.
I'm gonna hide the roll.
But, Jeff, you're gonna pick the number.
Okay.
So, the number is the one we don't want to roll, right?
Yeah, I got it for rolling.
Yes, if I roll the number, then you should disintegrate the one you wanted.
Four.
I don't know.
I don't like four.
You don't like four.
Alright, it felt like it wasn't gonna roll a four.
I don't know what to tell you.
We'll find out.
So you killed the one.
I mean it is a cantrip.
It's not like, you know, it's not super powerful.
So now we're at the top of the round, which is Jeff.
Okay.
He's going to... Well done, well done.
Let's see.
Next one.
and throw less fancy this time.
If it wasn't at this measure, if we were closer, I would crit.
But that is still a 19 to hit.
Yes, of course you hit.
Yeah.
Slashing damage, less damage, seven slashing.
I don't, you don't need to tell me, they don't ever mean you do slashing.
Okay.
Okay.
And then Christine.
I'm gonna try this again, because I'm,
There is, I'm sorry, there is one more thing.
After he throws, he goes, well, I'm out of axes.
So good luck.
And I'm going to pull out my battleaxe and be ready in case they climb up here, I guess.
No, not battleaxe, war hammer.
So Marwyn looks at the fire in her palm, looks back at the skeleton that was incinerated,
She's pretty sure that's not from her, but doesn't know for certain.
But we'll try this again.
So I will try to hurl another produced flame.
Much better results, a dirty 20.
Yeah, you hit.
So four.
Ready for this?
Actually, not bad.
Five fire damage.
You down that one.
Nice.
So this one gets cooked.
The bones are a bit charred.
But there's still a body there.
Okay, skeleton's turn.
They all scatter.
Oh.
They're starting to run.
They're starting to run, yeah.
Go after them, Vazgar!
That is not the behavior I expected.
Go after them, Vazgar!
And you'll see she feed up.
Yeah.
Hmm.
Well, it's not my turn.
Okay, we live in combat, or are we?
No.
Okay.
No, yeah, it's your turn.
It's their chance, it's your turn.
I'm going to, um...
How rocky is the ledge?
Can I theoretically slide down without taking all my hit points worth of damage?
At level one?
Yeah, like how steep is this?
Is it like a grade or is it like a top?
Oh no, I've got a better, I've got a better move, I've got a better move I believe.
You can easily climb it without rope, but it does require climbing.
I wanna say you could slide down it, but you could like gracefully
fall down it.
If that makes sense.
I'm going to face step 30 feet down and then try to catch slide the rest of the 30 feet.
Okay.
I will buy into it if you will.
Good.
Um, I would say you have a spell for this.
It's something I can do.
But it is, it's a spell.
It's a spell.
Like it's a natural spell kind of thing.
It's just a natural magical ability.
So this gave me an easy role to show your dexterity.
Oh, like acrobatics?
Yeah, acrobatics.
You need a little extra to be successful here.
Oh, Lareth, help me.
No.
I can still get 30 feet down, but then I think I probably tuck and roll.
So yeah, you go 30 feet down.
you essentially was not the most grateful, but what you thought was something you could slide into was just not something you should be sliding on.
Like, you know.
Oh, it's sharp and rocky.
It's sharp and rocky, which causes you to fall head over heel and not quite face plant, but you're prone on the ground.
After you do damage, yeah, I'll say you take 1d3 damage.
So we'll just divide by 2.
So that's 2 damage.
What did that look like?
Did you just disappear and reappear?
Or is it more chilly than that?
The face stuff in particular is not very flashy, but there's probably like a little, almost like a little
I'm feeling a springtime, like a little floral or plant type of a scent.
And I don't have my secondary Eladrin thing that goes with my Face Step.
I will have to.
Not at this level.
On the bright side, you're down.
Oh, my ability would have been I could have picked Vazgardeau Face Step instead.
Oh, you could do one or the other.
I can teleport a different person.
I got you, but you couldn't take both.
I couldn't take both of those.
I think I was excited about trying to find the grandfather's body, and I did it myself.
I just gotta close the window.
That's fair.
I didn't think of doing somebody else, because we're not a cohesive party yet.
Yeah, we're not a full party yet.
Yeah.
I kind of rather suspect to this, everybody's going to kind of try it their own way to get, go after them without us really coordinating the way we should.
Yes.
So I just peer in, in kind of a blink reappear 30 feet down.
I try to catch myself on a level of the ledge, but I ended up basically rolling.
And then.
Yeah.
Imagine still looks graceful.
She's yeah.
Why not?
I mean,
She is, I, you know, how I imagine it is you teleport 30 feet, which you can imagine is going to be like a perfect slide into a run.
Ended up being that it was just a little too rocky for you to, to handle that.
And so instead you have to put your focus on not like, you know, getting hurt, getting hurt.
Um, and, uh,
I would say, are you seroprone?
I would say yeah, you hit the ground hard enough where you're going to need a moment to catch yourself.
A couple of like very aesthetic scrapes and things like that.
Yeah.
I mean, you can, I just really occurred to me, well, you know, you are an elf.
We got to like make your failures feel elven too.
Yeah.
I'm up.
Yeah.
Okay, um, Bazgar is going to try and climb down.
Uh, I'm hoping to use athletics because typically that's used for climbing.
Yes.
Um, and you don't have to instruct anyone.
I don't have to instruct anyone.
I don't have to be fancy.
Um, that was my movement.
Can I actually take an action while I'm prone?
Cause all I'm going to do is, yeah, well, I can't stand up.
I mean, you could if you dash it, but yeah.
I could have a dash but actually instead of dashing I like to pull the medallion out visibly and try to like keep it at hand.
Keep it at hand so if the grandfather actually catches sight of it.
Maybe there's still some of him in there.
Yeah, so let's bait him back in.
We're hoping.
That's a work.
We don't know how long that'd work here.
It's a good strategy.
Basgar is going to try and climb down and
Because 60 feet is a long way to go.
I am going to use the orc feature adrenaline rush and dash Just go zoomies basically I have a lot more movement for a turn for the for as a bonus action me and I get temporary hit points Because I am hyped up on adrenaline Just hand over hand Go down as fast as I can so athletics
17.
Yeah, easy.
Do you even like, is you going down look more like little hops or do you like actually like climbing?
I think it probably starts as like hand over hand climbing mixed with like drops and then at the end he kind of pushes off the wall for the last like 10 feet and land like pushes off.
You parkour down.
Kind of parkour down, yeah.
Yeah, okay.
And then Not to say the bar higher for you.
Yeah, you'll be fine.
You got this and then to For my action I am going to ready my shield get my shield out and then next turn we can start chasing undead if they don't turn around and chase us You got this so Marwin is going to Use your action to take her time a little bit.
I want to look around and
and see if there's any kind of like, there's another ledge or something within 30 feet down.
Some other stop before hitting the ground.
I don't think you need to roll for that.
You see that there is.
Okay.
Then what I would like to do is I'm gonna cast the first real spell of the game.
Real spell.
Wow, I mean.
It changed a little bit from the story description.
Nobody's up there to see this, but I'm going to pull a Petrified Frogleg out of my bag.
And I take it between my hands and I snap the bone in half, uttering the words, bone bends, ground forgets.
I'm gonna cast the Jump spell on myself as a bonus action.
That allows me to take 10 feet of movement and just jump 30 feet.
No roll require, just I move.
Okay.
So I'm going to then jump down, land on another kind of ledge or area somewhere that's lower down.
And then from there I guess I'll use my action to try to get down carefully.
Okay.
The jumping part is not a bonus action, right?
No, the jump is the bonus action does jump say you can only do it once per turn.
Oh, otherwise once per turn Oh once it's unfortunate.
I want to pretend that would be like the best.
Yeah, cuz otherwise you can just leapfrog all the way Yeah, that'd be great.
Well, I'm gonna make it a very easy check good.
It's very bad at this Yes, that's something I've decided in this game that I won't just so ten easy Yeah, so then I'm gonna finish getting down then and because I only I
I guess how much movement would it have cost me to get down the rest of the way?
Cause I would have had 20 feet left.
Yes, but you're heading down and you pass your roll.
So I'm just going to make it a five foot cost.
Okay.
There was no easy, you don't walk down, you slide down.
In that case then with my remaining 15 feet of movement in my action, I'm going to dash and I'm going to get the furthest head out of our group.
Running after the nearest skeleton.
You're a character who
epically climb down the this quite difficult terrain thinking that you are ahead suddenly see your companion effortlessly leap down next to you with plenty of energy for momentum to get ahead you're running there 45 feet ahead of you this is excellent we are so good at this
I'm sure this won't backfire, guys.
The wizard running out front.
Oh no, Bazgar thinks this is wonderful.
You're enthusiastic, you're going for it.
I have an eight wisdom, so the consequences of this action are not yet dawning.
You don't have armor or...
I don't know what you can do.
Maybe you got magic.
So... More magic.
So skeletons turn.
I do have a question for you, but you go any after then.
Yeah.
They split.
So I'm going after whatever the nearest one was to where my location was.
So they split.
If there's one that would be a closer proximity, I'm going after it.
But if I would overtake it with my 45 feet of movement, I would not.
I would stop short.
No, you can do their head because they have the 60 feet away.
So how many?
So I had 45 feet of movement when I hit the bomb.
So you're within 15 feet of one of them.
OK.
So then I would have stopped probably like 20-ish feet away.
Okay, so you're 20 feet away.
Yeah, she would have stopped short as she kind of realized she actually was making good headway there.
And when she gets that close, isn't quite sure what she's supposed to do.
So now it's like the skeleton's turn.
Then it's the skeleton's turn.
You got this.
Time to make a new character.
Nicole, high or low?
High.
Is it high good or high bad?
Good.
Okay, the skeleton, uh, continues to flee.
Okay.
Does not turn on you.
Okay.
I love the image now, like Marwin stops up short, like, oh crap, what am I going to do?
And the skeleton, like, just doesn't notice her and just keeps running.
These skeletons are not running.
Um, they're hobbling.
They're shambling.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
So not a full 60 feet of movement.
So initially it was at first, initially they did, oh, more point.
They weren't right against the ledge.
Right, there was some distance.
And there was some distance.
And then they moved 30 feet.
The other part here is that Durene doesn't really affect you, but I just feel like it's just a lot harder for zombies to deal with.
Okay.
Even the slightest of not perfect Durene.
And finally, the third thing is that they don't seem to be fleeing in the sense of fear.
They're more like... Stargold.
Stargold than anything else.
Look at animalistic Stargold.
Yeah.
That one moves 50 feet away from you, and I'm keeping track of it.
So he's 50 feet away from you, and the other two continue on, and they are now 90 feet away, yeah, 90 feet away in different directions.
Well, there's only two levels, but there are three.
There were three.
Yeah.
There's three.
So there were five originally.
There were five originally.
Yeah.
Because I said there was either four or five, and it turns out this way.
But now you're down in the action.
Okay, Nicole.
I will stand up.
And how far away are you from me, Baskar?
I can't imagine that far, because we both ended up facing the ledge.
I don't know how wide it was.
I think you're both at the bottom.
Yeah, we're both at the bottom, so we're pretty close.
Well, then, would you like to go a bit further?
Always.
All right.
I'm going to burn my other face up,
Asgar, you can shoot forward 30 feet.
I love it.
After the same skeleton as me or a different one?
If there's another visible one, yeah, that's fine.
We can all get different skeletons.
I mean, that's the correct choice.
None of them are visible because there's a dense forest, but you can... You know when you see through a whole lot of trees and something's moving and it's every so often you get to see...
That's basically where you're at.
If you wait another turn, they'll be totally gone.
You gotta chase them.
Yeah, I'm sending Bazgar off of whichever one Marvin did not chase down.
Okay.
Alright, so I got that down.
Okay.
Um, then I am going to...
There's three, right?
I'm gonna go up to the third one.
Okay.
We're not a good cohesive party.
We're just winging it.
Yep.
All right, so top of the round, Jeff.
Okay, you said that I am...
I got 30 feet of movement.
How far does that put me from my skeleton?
You're 30 feet.
30 feet?
Excellent.
I am going to yell... Come and get it!
Sorry.
Come and get it, Karthargh, scum.
And I am going to charge into melee with the one that I can reach, and I am going to give him a nice ol' Warhammer smack to the everything.
Okay.
Oh, damn.
23 to hit.
Of course you hit.
Jeff, your dice are on fire.
My dice are on fire, and they're fire colored, so it's excellent.
Max damage, so that is 13 bludgeoning damage.
You, um, the bomb would have bludgeoning, so you... Boom!
Yeah, it goes down immediately.
Um... Well done.
He looks super proud of himself.
The peacock is all back, and then he stops and goes, Oh, I just insulted the ancestor.
I don't think I was supposed to do that.
Oh no.
Okay.
He's conflicted, but still proud, been good.
Fair enough.
Hi.
Hi.
It's 50 feet away?
Uh, yeah.
I'm gonna hurl a produced flame at it before I do anything else this turn.
Okay.
That is a natural one.
I don't know.
Um.
So, yeah, so I hurl fire in this densely packed forest.
Good job.
And I completely missed my target.
Um, so that didn't go so great.
So when that happens, um, I'm going to guess I failed to get its attention.
Uh, yeah.
So in that case, then I'm going to continue to make use of my jump spell and I will spend 10 feet of movement to leap 30 feet straight ahead.
And, um, you know what?
Let's get stupid.
I'm going to, uh, I'm going to run.
Uh...
I'm gonna run up to it.
Because I'm trying to keep it from getting away from me right now.
Okay.
So I will clear the 50 feet of movement, uh, and be right behind it.
It's turn.
Yep.
Uh, needless to say, it's going to try to attack you.
Okay.
Whatever you roll, you proudly hit.
Well, maybe nine.
That's a nine.
Actually, that misses my AC of 11.
As Marwyn runs up to like, I think her instinct was almost like tried to like grab it or something and it turns around and is it like holding a weapon?
Yeah, I'm sure it's showing.
It turns around and stabs at her and kind of more an alarmant than anything.
She sort of like clumsily dodges out of the way.
Okay.
All right.
Oh, it's, it attacked.
Yeah.
Yours is dead.
Yeah.
The, the third one, uh, how far did you get to it?
Um, I would have only had 30 feet.
Well, actually I didn't take an action, so I could have moved up to 60 feet.
Okay.
So you have, it's 30 feet away.
It's now, who did turn and attack you?
Uh, I low.
Low.
Low.
So, six 18s you run away.
But it only moves 30 feet, so it's just 60 feet away from you.
Okay, well, within 60 feet, I am going to command it.
So, wisdom saving throw DC 13.
11 and a voice that I don't think these guys will hear but um saber nose voice then gets echoed with a much more authoritative voice it echoes through the trees they hear it okay well this is not thaumaturgy it's not like a super loud but it's like regular talking command I'm going to say gravel and it must
uh, take the prone condition and end its turn on its next turn.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's even though it's like you're open, you hear her, you're not that far apart yet.
Okay.
Um, so what you do hear, as you said, if her continued to run, you stop and cast and say gravel.
And in the distance you can see that the skeleton is collapsed and is gravelly.
It's almost like two voices overlapping.
Um, then I'm going to,
move as close as I can to it.
Sound like Dune?
Like the Dune?
The Dune?
Well, the second voice is probably very feminine and authoritative.
Oh, okay.
Oh, okay.
All right.
All right.
But they blend.
They harmonize.
I like it.
Um, so
How I picture things is Marwin ran off and then Baz and Seagal went kinda... Like yeah, like if it was a fan down.
You're in the middle.
Okay, yeah.
So you gotta choose a direction.
You either go help her, and her skeleton's 30 feet away, or you go take on this grappling skeleton which is 30 feet away.
Well, her skeleton, or their skeleton seems to be basically dead already, it's fine.
So I'm gonna go help Marwin.
Okay.
Who is being stabbed.
I feel like this one's been hit at all.
Yeah, damn.
Yeah, he's...
The Sker sees the skeleton drop!
Well, it's not his turn yet, but yeah.
Fair, but like...
But like... You've got magic, you are dealing with it.
It is going great for you.
I will catch up later if you need help.
Let's save Marwen, who is getting stabbed actively.
And I am going to start booking it towards Marwen.
Okay.
Can I get in the melee range?
Yeah, save your feet.
Okay.
I can move 30 feet, right?
I can move 30 feet, yes.
Okay.
I'm using so many resources on this silly buggy.
That's okay.
If Jeff doesn't kill it, I'm going to as well.
Yeah.
We gotta play with our abilities, right?
Going to...
This is the perfect moment to do that.
Charge and smack it with a war hammer.
Natural one.
The streak had to end at some point.
Describe the failure.
Or I can.
Is it just a failure or is it like something bad has to happen kind of thing?
No there aren't there aren't any rules for that kind of thing.
No okay I would only have um if the scene cinematics call for it I would consider it.
I don't think the cinematics call for it.
I think um Baz rushes in and takes a swing but um inexperience is showing he's done fighting before more than
You too, it seems like.
But, um, the skeleton, you know, it's stabbing at Marwen.
It is not paying attention to me.
He expects it to turn and, like, face him.
It does not do that.
It flutters forward to stab again.
And so his angle is off.
His aim is just not good.
And it switches over.
You attack where it was.
Yeah, I attack where it was.
And it's stabbing forward.
Because it's acting like a stupid zombie.
Yeah.
I expect more skill than,
Yeah, I gave it too much credit And for Marwin And it goes that is off balance because when you miss a Warhammer swing like that The Warhammer doesn't stop.
It's very disorienting the recovery.
Yeah, there's a lot of recovery like it slows him down a lot For Marwin we hear the the crow call in the distance again and
as if to go like, what are you doing, stupid?
And it kind of makes her, like she starts to panic at first and it's like quickly grabbing at her back.
And then she sort of slowed down her movements, practice, starting to take over muscle memory, as well as trying to think through the scenario, most like seeing the strategy of it.
And she pulls out a handful of what you realize is like ash in her hand.
And she turns carefully where I want to be standing beside Vaz.
So I'm maneuvering around the skeleton that way he's not, we're not on opposite sides, we're together.
And as I'm doing so, you see her kind of, she's pouring the ash into her hand, her eyes begin to glow red again, and she starts to say, ash to skin, flame remembers, fingers speak, fire answers.
And then I blow the campfire ash and a gout of flame fires out at the,
Skeleton is I'm going to cast Burning Hands.
I need a Dexterity Saving Throw, Joe.
Versus a DC 13.
Still does half damage, though.
It does.
It's okay.
We're level 1, these things happen.
Roll Max.
It'll be fine.
It's still going to take it would have been nine fire damage.
Sadly.
It only will be what for then?
And I'm out of spell slots now Yeah, this is the trouble with spell casters at level one one cantrips are really bad.
Yep, and They have two castings They're done for the day
Yeah, I know.
This is why fighters are great.
Everybody should play fighters.
My command is free-casting.
Yeah, your command is free.
You haven't spent much.
Well, I spent my two face-ups, but... We're still burning water resources, but... That's fair.
We're level one.
It's not that the Gout of Flame is unimpressive.
It's more that the skeleton gets the heck out of the way of the bulk of it as it fires out.
But if it wasn't obvious before, Marwyn knows magic, Asgard.
I'm kind of picturing like when we first encounter the skeletons and they scatter, I kind of picture like this lurching like quick and then they kind of slow down as they're jambling.
I kind of picture the dodge is the same thing as things not moving very fast and then suddenly it's moving very fast and they just they're lurching they're really
They're unpredictable.
So like the last few moments this skeleton's been very unpredictable.
We thought it was going to go fast and went slow.
We thought it was going to go slow and went fast.
And it's almost like it's half, it's almost like it's half there.
Like sometimes it's acting like a dumb zombie.
Sometimes it's acting like something's still left and remaining.
When it doesn't go down, Marwen is very, still staying right by Bazgar's side, almost trying to use his shield to help protect herself.
Oh yeah, he gets to attack you.
Yeah.
Sorry.
Who are you going after?
Yeah, me or?
I gotta ask.
Obviously.
You're the fighter, you gotta fight the fighter.
Yeah, you're the natural one.
He doesn't even know you're there, you're the fighter.
That will hit.
That will hit.
My AC is only an 11.
And it is just going to be, yeah.
It's gonna hurt, but you got a cleric in your party.
Good.
Okay.
Wow, you got lucky on that.
Yeah, I did.
It jabs its sword into you.
Surprise.
It hurts.
Yeah, I kind of gathered that.
As if her light sinks into her there.
The other one, of course, travels.
It just drops prone and ends its turn.
I'm gonna go up and A, inspect it to see if it's the one I'm looking for.
Actually, you got the one that you're looking for.
That is him.
I still have to put it out of its misery.
I'm gonna attack it with a quarterstaff.
Do I have advantage if it's prone?
Like if it's a melee attack?
I think?
Yes, you do.
Okay.
Well, I think if Steeples kind of walks up, poke poke, oh, you are it.
Oh no.
These are terrible rolls.
I even prone, I can't assume a seven would hit.
No, he has armor scraps.
Okay.
Vazgar, I'm gonna need some help.
In the meantime, I'm going to...
I'll take the metal and, like...
It's lying on the ground.
I'm gonna drop the metal onto it.
Like, I'm not gonna bend down and put it on, that would be dangerous.
I'm gonna drop the metal right in front of it to see if it reacts.
Okay.
I'm going to hit it with my hammer.
This is a very simple job, being a fighter.
Uh, 21, so smack.
Seven bludgeoning, but since it's vulnerable, that's 14.
Yeah, it's down.
I'm going to use the push mastery.
So the bits of skeleton go flying 15 feet.
Okay.
Why not?
It's infinite use.
I'll use push, because it's funny.
And after that, the baddest guy is going to curse and say, shit, I don't know if that was the grandfather!
No, no!
But we're still in combat, so... You just hear Sabriel call out.
Yeah, and Sabriel's calling for help, so... Great job!
You did great!
I'm going to...
I'm going to take 30 feet towards Sabriel.
start making distance towards them.
Okay.
Skeleton.
Oh no, it's your turn.
It's my turn.
Sorry.
How far away is the other skeleton?
60 feet.
Cool.
I'm going to stay right where I am because I'm learning my lesson and I will hurl a bit of fire at it.
But it's still prone, right?
Yes.
Small target.
I will do it at disadvantage.
So how prone works is
Close it's easy to hit because it can't roll around long range you're shooting like the profile so there's less visible so Yes, so and that's a core part of like how 5e works is that idea like you have your standard roll and then if you have then advantage or disadvantage you roll two dice and
Advantage, you take the higher of the two.
Okay.
Disadvantage, you take the lower.
I got that part.
Yeah, I'm good.
I'm good.
Yep, so.
I didn't know about the prone, aggregate, disadvantage.
So because of the two I rolled with my lower, I continue to contribute to forest fires everywhere.
It's okay, no, don't burn this one.
Don't burn this one.
Oh, okay.
It's the grandfather.
Okay.
So she started yelling through like, this is the grandfather.
Okay.
And then I am going to... You know what?
I really don't want to get stabbed anymore.
That hurt.
So I'm just going to use my jump spell to get into a tree for the moment.
That'll end my turn.
You can be a tree sniper and just go... Judgmental crow.
Favorite character so far?
The crow.
All right, it's turn.
It recognizes the, what is it?
The metal up and down the end and crawls at it and scrambles and tries to take it into itself.
But like it doesn't have the motor skills to quite do that.
So it just looks sad.
Like really sad.
That's his turn.
Uh, can I put the metal on him?
Um, yeah, actually you can.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't know if it's on a chain or anything.
It's on a chain because the, um, grandson is wearing it.
Yeah.
Then, uh, in possibly the stupidest thing ever, I'm going to reach out and actually like grab the chain and like link it around the undead's neck.
Yeah.
Um, what religion?
Fancy and schmancy.
You have to manage.
It's very fitting.
Okay, um, that would give me a 14.
Would you allow me to guidance myself at that moment as well?
What does that do?
Uh, basically gives me a d4 bonus.
Okay.
It's like kind of like whisper encouraging things to myself.
So 15 total.
Okay.
You put the amulet on and you see
rests come across the undead and it falls down to its knees and his jaw goes slack jarred and almost you see almost um maybe perhaps feel the spirit leave outward and then his corpse just collapsed dead now it's just a regular day okay they dead dead yeah i believe we've
Achieve the goal of putting it to rest.
Yeah, Bazgar's gonna kind of be running full-time, like, slow down as he's coming up and, like, hammer her ready and it's like, oh.
Very good!
We did great!
Go team!
And there were barely any injuries.
Nothing serious.
I will get back down out of the tree with another jump down.
How long will it take us to get back to the tower?
How long will it take us to get here?
One hour.
Oh, we have plenty of time.
Oh, yes.
It's uphill, but you know.
Bhaskar, you can carry the body, right?
Yes, of course.
It'll probably be two hours back.
Yeah, you guys are going uphill now.
Bazgar is going to start to just fireman carry and then stop, think about it, and then more gently, more carefully pick up the body in a more intentional and respectful way.
I will offer one of my outer layer of robes to wrap it up.
One of the nice things about how several
was able to do it is the body's perfectly intact.
There's no damage or anything.
You may get back to the- no.
Just real quick, character detail, as they're very carefully, respectfully wrapping up this body, going to carry it in the background.
Marwin on the one that Bascar scattered is taking a bone like, oh, this is some good pieces here.
And I'm like, Oh yeah, absolutely.
And I'm grabbing a little bit of undead bone to use for, uh, for later.
Corpse marrow.
Yep.
I'm going to add it to my satchel.
The knuckle bone is very valuable.
It was like the foreground and then the background.
Are we all ready?
Ready to go.
Now you can continue, Joe.
Okay.
You... You notice Marwin's been stabbed.
How hobbly are you right now, Marwin?
I am not bledded.
I'm fine.
You're not bledded?
Nope.
This is a scratch.
How much life did you lose?
I lost three, and that was your total life.
I have 11 health.
I'm almost quite sturdy.
So honestly, she seems fine.
What she'll say, um, you're looking, I really go to look her over.
I think I'll be okay.
I just, let's get the body returned.
And then before we tackle something else, I would like to take a bit of time.
Okay.
You get up back to the tower and the guards actually down below to greet you.
I saw the fire down below.
Oh yeah, I did take the time to put that out before we left.
It didn't catch anything.
The forest is cold, it is wet.
It's just not the time of the year to start forest fires, thankfully.
We've heard that fire was good against undead.
You didn't destroy the remains, did you?
No, no, of course not.
Not this one.
Very civilized of you.
You say that as it is unusual.
Come, please, can you carry, bring it with you?
Of course.
You see another guard approaching and he makes a small comment about you guys being just on time.
And he transitions his guard and then he leads you guys up further up the mountain to a grave site that is alone.
He takes the body from you once or above and gives you a respect of,
like half bow and taking the body.
And then he, he places it down into an already dug grave that he has done.
And then you three get to basically watch him unless you don't watch except you didn't pay you yet.
I mean, if he's going to rebury them, if there's an extra shovel or something, you'll help.
Yes.
Okay.
Actually, um, we're Basgar assist with that too.
Yeah, definitely.
Because if you want to do the shovel, I will use elementalism as I'm going to command the dirt to start filling in the hole.
And I'm going to start moving it with magic.
Muscle.
In very short order, you get it fully buried.
He thanks both of you and you kind of get the signal you need back off the moment.
Which I will kind of like pick by Hannah Basgar and help
We'll back up.
Doesn't really pick up on that initially.
But like when guided away, it's like, oh, yeah.
He says a few quiet prayers.
And then a moment later he comes to which one of you are ahead of everybody or the one he's going to talk to.
I think by default, we will put Vazgar in the lead as the point of conversation.
Unless it's something that's really in one of our wheelhouse, as I would say.
Yeah, unless the person gravitates to the video.
You broke your expectations.
Thank you so much for bringing my grandpa back to home to rest with his wife.
I hope that his spirit will watch over you.
Ah, the payment.
Well-deserved.
He pays you enough for each of you to have 75, plus an additional 15 each for such a well-done job of bringing the body back in one piece.
So that is a total...
90.
Nice.
It was a... We're glad we're able to, you know, help.
Gives you a citizen salute, as best I can describe it, and respect it, and then he actually returns back to spend time at the gravesite to contemplate.
maybe find another job I don't know how much expeditions cause maybe we look into that yes we will certainly need to take another job if you would like to fund an expedition but an expedition depending there are more than one but like a mid-tier expectation be 50 gold each okay there are more expensive ones if you want to go to better spots that are higher in the mountain
So we want to go like a low one, cheaper, just 50 gold.
Cause you just got food and rations.
We just kind of hand wave the details, but that's what I'm thinking.
But if you want to go high.
For transporting back stuff, basic, basic stuff.
Yeah.
Basically enough gold.
I can hand wave all that.
Yeah.
If you want to go up the mountain to some of the hardest sites to reach, I will go a hundred gold each.
Um, and you also that, that also means you get a, um,
We'll have to give them a name, but it's basically the equivalent of a surfer.
Like, well then, someone who knows how to navigate the mountain.
I vote that we do the option B, because there are twofold reasons.
Better odds of getting something cool, and Morrowinds want spider parts.
Yeah.
I would...
I need a little bit of time though before we continue.
Alright, now we can get a drink, talk, be merry, all the good stuff.
It's probably about lunch time anyway.
Would you like me to see to that injury?
I think I just need to look, you can look over it while we're resting, yes.
I just mean like mechanically, I don't waste a spell slot.
I think role playing wise that would make sense if you get to like, I don't know, disinfect it or something or patch me up.
But yeah, I'm fishing for a short rest.
I wouldn't mind because I'll get all of my resources back.
Did the German rush come back?
Really?
Nice.
I think I get anything back on a short rest, but I still have two spell slots that I can use.
I can spend my hit die, but then I will get back a spell slot.
I'm going to use my hit die for my recovery.
Are we okay to do a short rest, Joe?
Yeah, of course.
I will recover my damage and I will use arcane recovery to regain one spell slot.
That way, if we do a tackle something else, I am not tapped.
Well, the temporary hit points they get from adrenaline rush aren't like, specifically timed.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
I don't get my face steps back until a long rest.
But I do have my two regular spell slots I can burn still for the day.
So if we want to try to tackle the spiders today, we can.
Well, I guess snow bats only in the mornings.
Yeah, we have to wait until the morning.
If we want to do something else this day, we want to try to go after goblins.
Sure.
They keep coming at dusk.
The fact that we're later in the day may actually be a benefit to the show.
Yeah, that sounds good.
I mean, yeah, sure.
So maybe we can make Joey use a map.
Yeah, we're gonna make you break out a map.
We got minis real soon.
We got minis, we got maps.
I will break out a map for the goblins because it will need one unlike the previous fight.
The previous fight was very two dimensional.
Yes.
So we can give this the old, you know,
I'll try here.
Coffee break?
Yeah, but I think I might be out of milk.
Oh, okay.
I need to see how much you ate.
No, no, that's not true.
Look, my wife got us stocked.
We can make more coffee.
On the floor.
Until you break it.
Until milk spills out everywhere.
Milk everywhere.
Okay, all right, so we need a hundred gold just to do an expedition.
Yes.
and then we have no money for ourselves, basically, so.
Yeah, I think we definitely need to take a couple more jobs because I have a very expensive pony.
Yes.
I'm a wizard.
Wizards hemorrhage money.
This is what happens, so.
Yeah.
Bazgar is totally fine getting a hundred gold.
What's that?
I will take one.
I'll go ahead and take one.
I'll take like a small one.
I put my mug somewhere in there though.
Half as much.
Same strength.
I'm thinking like one shot
but half as much milk as I had before, so like, yeah, about.
What I gave you before was that amount of milk, two shots.
Do you want one shot or two shots?
One shot.
One shot, and so just half milk, one shot.
Yeah, just less milk, so not all the way full up kind of thing.
So half of, do you want it meeker or the same strength?
Same strength.
Okay, thank you.
I'm just cutting you in half.
Yeah.
Do we have dinner plans for tonight or no?
I was gonna make everyone a pizza.
Love pizza.
Well, what time do you usually make dinner?
Well, 1 to 20.
Okay, how about coffee break, second encounter, pizza.
Yeah, and then we figure out what else we wanna do.
And then we figure out, yeah, the next thing.
It's New Year's Eve, we could be up all night.
Yeah, absolutely, I had no work this week.
Cool.
And I'm all cool playing until I can't play anymore, so.
We gotta invest some money, guys.
We could play forever.
I'm all for it, yeah.
I will have to take a few breaks just to continue to plan, because I don't know why I've heard that you've been told I'm a sandbox GM.
So how that works is I build a lot of tools for the sandcastle.
And then basically, if you get to a spot where I haven't got a head, either I already have those tools and I can pull them out, or I just need a moment to reassemble them.
But I have all the sand.
Well I like this pattern of like we do a chunk and then we take a few and then we do a chunk and then we take a few.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's so nice to reset my ones a while.
And just get up and move around periodically.
Do you want to go get more steps in?
I probably will.
I think I'm going to run out of battery and then take another one.
You can try to do a full up.
I will fail.
Christine's working on 10,000 steps a day right now.
Yeah.
I'm working on some of the weight loss stuff.
One of my goals for 2026, by the end of the year, I want to be able to do a pull-up.
Actually, probably you should do a hang.
Yeah?
Yeah.
I want to go do a hanging.
Want to try a hang?
I can.
I'm going to go to the bathroom for a second.
OK.
I want to try a hang.
OK.
When Christine is out, there is one thing I would like to say.
Yeah!
to go for walkies while I have daylight?
Yeah.
Get out of my house.
Everything becomes an opportunity.
Yeah, but while you are preparing the coffees.
Yes, I will prepare coffee for everyone.
We're going to go goblin hunting.
This is fun.
I'm glad you guys are enjoying it.
Yeah, it's fun to play good.
We haven't played
I didn't run one game.
Wife got very busy last year.
Wife got very busy.
So literally it was last January 3rd I wrapped up a campaign and then I got consumed by work.
So this is very nice.
Are you enjoying your cast of characters so far?
I'm loving you guys.
You got really cool characters.
Jeff's rocking his accent.
Oh, he's doing a great job with that.
Yeah.
You know, I'm feeling York.
I'm liking Nicole's portrayal of the very, very never seen elves.
And I'm liking the witch portrayal.
I also love the fact that, like, out of the three of us, they immediately notice Jeff and they react to him.
When they figure out why Nicole is, they immediately react to her.
If anybody figures out what I am, it's probably a whole other ball game.
I don't think anybody knows what you are apart from you can just do magic.
Correct.
Which, how common is magic?
Apparently, it's very unusual.
As a quick warning, these dates are not hidden.
They do evidence.
Okay, so don't just lay it down.
They're not, I'm common, I would say.
Magic users?
Yeah.
But they're not common either.
You're not terribly surprised when you encounter one, but you probably don't encounter one every day.
It's not like meeting a famous person.
Like a college professor on that level.
You know they're there, they're around, but most people don't have them in every building.
Right, yeah.
It's like, you're not surprised that it's finding somebody who isn't a college professor.
Oh, that's neat.
And what's the equivalent of running to a witch and elder hold?
Does it kind of like running into an underpicker?
No.
Now, that's kind of the equivalent of money, a cost, I don't know.
I'm trying to think of this name.
Yeah, that'd be not likely.
I can't think of a good equivalent.
I can't think of being a famous person, because it's kind of the opposite.
It's like being a famous person, but it's like,
They have a knife and they're like a little crazy in there.
Oh, it's the same likelihood as one of your friends being a serial killer.
Okay.
Alright, I'm gonna walk.
I'll be back guys.
When I come back I'll snack and coffee.
Bye!
I was saying that when I was a kid he used to approach it.
Yeah.
What were the different inspirations you had for each region?
I'm not sure what five and six are.
Much, much safer.
That one's mine, I think.
I'm getting caffeine right now.
Where's your cup?
Kyle's having difficulties with ZA.
Yeah, I was reading that.
Yeah, I don't think he likes it.
That's fair, I suppose.
But he did not play Arceus, either.
So, goblins, long rest, spiders, shopping?
We should probably shove the shopping in before we long rest, since somebody forgot their axes.
Goblins come at dusk, though.
How later shops go, you don't mind?
True.
Okay, goblins, long rest, shopping, spiders.
Or spiders in shopping.
Either way.
Spiders in the way.
So spiders not shopping?
I will simply have to get clothes.
I've got a shield, it will be fine.
Unfortunately.
I also personally would rather the shopping to come after we have more gold in our pocket.
That's fair.
I also wouldn't mind checking out the library and I think it's the upper ring I've heard about.
So after we finish the missions, before we set for an expedition, we explore around the city?
I like that.
You don't mind sticking around an extra day or two, do you?
What is a day?
Is it, like, literal?
Like, you don't know what a day is?
Or is that, like, okay?
It's not literal, Baskar.
I'm just double-checking.
You live, you people live a very long time.
It's hard to tell sometimes.
I understand the concept of time.
And I'm starting to wonder, like, people do not know things that I consider the very common knowledge, so I'm starting to wonder if maybe, like, knowledge is not so common in this world.
I don't think we're from this continent.
So good.
Your magic was very
What was that?
I thought so.
Whose magic was more subtle?
Yours, because you said a word and things happened, like the skeleton died or whatever, and you threw some shiny fire.
All she did was explode the fire.
Very bright fire, yeah.
I mean, we both used fire.
I think saying, stop, and then I think stopping is more subtle than boom.
Not like subtle, but more subtle.
You also asked for permission before you did something to aid us at several different junctures.
I need your consent in order to influence...
Yes, that was also very soul-magic.
Thank you.
Thank you, Barcy.
Yes, your magic is more silver.
I find that interesting.
It just seemed all like magic to me.
I can't tell the difference, really.
I mean, it's explosions, it's silver explosions, it's... Like, I don't know.
Bone seems to be a thing of mine.
Yes, I'm seeing this as well.
I'm wondering what it is she wants to buy that is so expensive, because like so far her components have seemed to be mostly things you pick up off the ground.
Maybe the really big spells need like gold-plated skeletons or something.
Is it mar-wen or mar-win?
Yes.
Spelling.
Spelling is W-E-N at the end.
That's pronounced more like win.
Yeah, you had it right.
Here you go.
Yay!
Oh!
So, during the session...
Yes, that's right.
While we were playing and you guys were all talking, I had the LLM connect create an MPC server so that I could ask it in natural language to find rules in the 5.2 ruleset.
Nice!
And it's been working because then I started using it.
So like that's where I can now, it's a natural language and I can use natural language for to go look up rules and spells.
Like as if you were asking Jeff.
Yes, I was asking Jeff.
I want a coffee.
Here, let me just ask it out.
No coffee for you.
I'll make you coffee soon.
Ask me something about 5.2 edition and I wouldn't know otherwise.
How are the grapple rules done?
I don't want to be grappled.
I do grapple in this edition.
It's the same with the tough stuff.
All right.
Do you know it?
I do.
Perfect.
You can judge it.
It's one of the major differences.
I watched your trip up Bren and Lee Muldigan the other day.
Move that stuff to the back.
Yeah, move that stuff to the back.
I didn't make the tool available to the NPC server, so it told me you can't do it, which it can't.
Which is good, that's the correct answer.
Didn't make shit up.
So I am telling it to fix that, and then I try again.
I think in the right little part.
There we go, grab one.
Just in case I need to double check, because I'm pretty sure I know it.
I'm very confident that I know 90% of it.
I want to make sure I get all 10, all 100.
I'm also confident that you know 90% of it.
Oh, shit.
I need to tell it to have full access, ancient.
Take the wheels.
It writes code for me.
You wanna fight about it?
I only have one hand because I'm holding it.
Thank you.
Punch.
No fighting.
Fighter, no fighting.
Jeff's gonna be, wanna fight about it?
It's like gonna be your theme for the year.
For, yeah, at least a year.
Okay, so.
Grab, grab, grab, grab, grab.
Okay, I'm at 93.
I have to look up an arm strike, that's where.
You're doing great.
I just walked a mile and a half apparently, but.
Did you go the same route, or did you go someplace else?
No, I did a longer route.
I did like what we did with Shelby and Joe the last couple times, I just did that twice.
Okay, you're probably not gonna go out again since you're that close.
No, that's why I did it now, the way I do it.
Hey, do you do the fuss if I try to walk in the dark?
I am, yeah.
I was correct on the grappling stuff.
I should check the actual grappled status just because, again, pretty sure.
Just so you guys know, I don't have like a lot of magic left.
If you're still interested in learning how to code, Alana has a really great way to do it.
I actually have been thinking about trying that again.
I know it didn't get very far the first time, but.
Hey, check this.
Like I have, so like the ages, I think I can't remember that, but the ages, that's actually a script file that allows me to convert it back and forth.
Okay.
Yeah.
Cause otherwise they don't know how to, you know.
So the other thing is then I connect that to the LLM so I can tell the LLM, give the LLM, I'll go like the year, I'm not gonna give the year cause the year gives away how old the world is.
And then it will convert it to the age for me.
Oh, nice.
Yeah.
The world is 400 years old.
That's it.
The elves, they got fictitious memories.
They were born as full adults with memories already about the past that never happened.
They were just spontaneously created when the world was formed 400 years ago.
There are weirder things, Jeff.
This is before the Drabbe came shape-shifters, right?
Yeah.
You sound like a Christian.
Yep, and then the Drabbe came shape-shifters.
The world's only been around for like 9,000 years.
It was just existed.
Like, the balances, the stars, everything.
The side, it all, poof, existed.
Yep.
There was nothing, and then, world.
400 years ago.
I got, my stupid younger self had to understand this.
Everything, talking to every particular creature, and I'm like, look, the layers.
Like, the soil's layers, how the, it just did.
I'm so confused.
My favorite are the really crazy ones who would say that like... Kyle's is crashing out.
Who would say things like that dinosaur bones were placed there as a test for your of your faith.
That's weird.
There's a small small small minority of people in every religion and creed and belief system and everything.
Like this is not explosive to Christianity by any means.
But there's a small subset of people who are both really dumb and really crazy.
Uh, yes, it's the shape of that one, but with little pastries on it.
I think it's on the main, um, island.
Kyle's critiques are valid.
Oh no, they are valid.
These are issues with the game.
Um, I understand the attacking, the Pokmon attacking you thing, because if the Pokmon didn't attack you, like, they want them to attack you, like, sometimes, like,
It's just, it takes a little bit too much for your Pokemon to draw aggro.
It's a little, like, it should be a little bit, they should be pulled off a little bit more easily.
Kyle himself dislikes being targeted.
Yeah.
In every capacity.
Yes, that is true.
So, he's just very sensitive to that particular flaw.
I'm generally happy with how the targeting is in the game.
I think it could be a little better, but really it comes down to, if you don't go to the pyro zone, it's okay.
Mm-hmm pyro zone is the worst place on in the game.
I Forget which while there is my guide like my cantrips to be one word type things because I feel like they're supposed to be Easy quick my cantrips have no verbal components for that reason.
I just have a quick description on mine Like I was because I have um
One, two, three, four, all, every single cantrip I have has a verbal component in its thing.
And some actually require somatic or materials along with it, but every single one requires something verbal.
Technically, mine do too, just because they're cantrips.
I didn't bother to come up with what those are.
I have a quick description, like she inhales for the produced flame or commands something for elementalism.
And I kind of moved on.
What I did is bonus actions are quicker chants, and then actual leveled spells ride in.
I suppose verbal components don't have to be words necessarily, they can be exclamations too.
Yes.
I've got something I did back with Hasan as I treated it like, it was like dancing lights, I think it was like a whistle or something like that.
It can be something other than speech too.
It could be Gregorian chants.
Or it should be quick, remember Kiek?
It can be that one word, yeah.
Just like... Well, something similar, I actually think what they're going to be is different, I'll hum in a different tone.
Now, I, Nicole, cannot do that.
But Sabriel would like pick a different, yeah, pick a different... That's cool.
I like that.
Tone for different cantros.
And like just have a musical scale version of things.
I like that.
I've also really liked your rhymes.
and stuff, and your components and things.
There you go, so I figured that I felt getting distracted.
Thank you, it's okay.
I would like to be focusing more on the components when I'm doing like the quick descriptions of things, but I played around at first, I had one.
Oh really?
Yeah.
Of the language words and stuff like that.
It is different, very different.
Is it the same as the previous one?
I think they're all slightly different.
I don't know that I have a refined enough taste pack to get on that.
I think you've still been doing a good job.
This one feels slightly more bitter, but not in a bad way.
Okay.
Do you like it?
I like it fine.
I prefer it smooth, but I'm okay with a little bit of bitterness.
It's not a problem.
Okay.
Cause what happened here, perfectly honest, I zoned out and kept pulling beyond the normal.
So they, I usually stop.
I was right.
Yes.
Yeah.
You're correct.
That one should be a little more bitter because I left the bitter part in.
That's okay.
Because I zoned out and went to the whole pool.
Yeah.
Normally I, especially with the one shot, I don't need a whole pool on it.
Yeah.
So yes, this one should be more bitter.
Explain the process to me.
So when you pull, you mean like the, yeah, the down motion.
So the more you pull down, the more bitter is that?
The correlation?
Yeah, so like as you imagine if this is your cup, imagine that this cup is way at the bottom and this is way at the top, like exaggerated, right?
At the very, at this part of it, it will be, it will be like dark.
Here, it'll start getting lighter.
This part here is the bitter and then up here is the
Karma, if I do it right, the fuzz, right?
So as soon as I do the pool, I'm up here and there's a level and I'm pulling down.
I'm watching this liquid.
And once I see this dark turn to the light, you cut it off to pull it out.
Now that's, that's basically what, uh, the, uh, it's a special, they call it something in the right place.
Um, either way, um, for,
Christine, specifically, I try to stop it right here, as soon as it, before I even see the light, because that's gonna be the less bitter.
For you, I go to here.
Because once you get past this, this is bitter, this is bitter.
Each section is different.
There's actually a special type of pour.
This group is a special thing where they'll have to put this in a cup, they'll put this in a cup,
and they put this in a cup so you can experience all three profiles.
Oh, that's cool.
I like that.
Yeah.
A lot of cups to use.
It's not a cup, it's not a dexterity.
This isn't the time for it.
But yeah, that's something I could try doing is when I pull Christine's, I can basically switch her cup with your cup if you want to try this part of it.
Maybe at some point.
This would be extra bitter.
Yeah, no, I figure.
I mean Christine, I presume you're not an experienced coffee drinker.
And she can very easily tell that I gave her just this part when I asked her.
I am curious, same with Nicole, she can tell that I gave her the whole shot.
I am curious to try the difference in pure shot, no milk or anything.
the difference between this and this, like the one you just gave me, like the whole thing, versus what you're getting Christine.
Do a taste test.
It's less bitter, it's the biggest thing.
Unfortunately, sorry Christine, I did give you the bitter part on this one.
I actually, it tastes fine to me.
It's not that bad.
It's not like the first time, but also I might be getting more used to it.
No, because it's actually the other part is that I'm,
I put yours in more milk.
So it's more diluted.
My experience with standard lattes, coffee plus milk with foaming stuff, is that if they don't have a sweetener, a syrup, anything added, they just mostly taste like milk to me.
Most places I've been to and gotten coffees like that, they barely taste like coffee.
They're not good.
I don't like them.
But this, which is the same thing in principle, is very good.
This tastes like coffee.
I'm sorry, I didn't process what you're telling me.
You done good.
Okay.
Cool.
I like how you make these, and every coffee shop I've been to to get something like this, I'm always disappointed.
I never like them.
Yeah, it is an art to it.
You have to really put a lot of time into it, and that doesn't bring any money, because a lot of people can't tell.
Well, it's not that they don't tell.
It's that the difference isn't a deal breaker.
The thing is, is that if you're adding a lot of sweets, yeah, they won't care.
Yeah.
Starbucks used to do this stuff.
They used to be very meticulous.
They train their people very well.
Like training periods were long and like they had to like, there's no way they do now.
No, they don't do any of that anymore.
It's all gone.
They used to do coffee tastings.
Like their people would go on paid coffee tastings and stuff.
Like it was,
They put so much into it, and it was so much better.
Now it's very much up to the individual barista, and it's not like terrible coffee or anything, but its quality has gone way down.
Because yeah, most people just drink sweetened drinks.
They get mochas and stuff, and the difference is much less pronounced than a mocha.
I think your journal is working out really well for that style of journaling.
Yeah.
The thing I like about the work I put into this is honestly the tabs.
It makes it very easy for me to go to my inventory versus my notes section versus my spell casting right now.
There's not anything here yet.
I've got some different stuff in my character sheet if I need to reference something, which has not happened too much yet because there's not a lot going on yet.
Yeah, I like those.
So, we'll see how it works afterwards.
I'm going to then update my notes once we're done.
Oh, did you print the grapple rules?
No.
No.
Oh.
It still fits.
It has a bug.
It's fixing itself.
Oh, that doesn't say grapple.
Okay.
I saw G and then what looked like rule.
No, no, no.
This is Goblin Rays.
Okay, yeah.
I'm vibe coding.
I can't read any of that.
You're fine.
But yeah.
But you didn't get the grapple stuff yet?
Um, it's, so it's not the elements and limitations that the tool is not available to it.
Yeah.
So, and I'm not coding it.
So I'm going to need a code itself, but then what happens is that it had an error.
So that what I did next is I told it to fix the, to write test code.
So I'll generate the test code, run that test code.
And if errors fix it and to continue on to that loop until it's done.
And I'll just sit there and keep.
doing its thing.
You know, sometimes it gets it.
Sometimes it goes way out there and, uh, yeah.
Is it kind of like a CP, CP3PO or 2D2?
Yeah, it's like having like a little, a little droid that it's like a free worker.
It's not, it's not like a human being cause it can't like, but it'll,
You know, it can act on its own.
It'll keep working at it.
And then you'll be like, oh poor bot, you're stuck on a door again.
You need a little help.
Cause you'll get stuck at doors basically.
It's the best way I can describe it.
It's a Roomba for language.
Yeah.
Yeah, you got a Roomba.
And so then it's kind of like almost pitch.
And then I feel more like a director.
Rather than like almost like, oh I have a little workforce on me and I'm just ordering little bots to do different things and I have multiple of them doing different things.
And typically so far all the mistakes have been found.
Literally because I told, either because I told the bot to do it or it is literally my mistake.
Like I'm the one, like I got this bot moved to the side.
Oh I guess I did have that, never mind.
Sure let the bot do it.
Bye-bye.
Um, which is, uh, and that's probably the reason why I really enjoy putting it together.
Cause I got to feel like I was, um, directing bots.
Like where?
And being, and then I could vote.
Yeah, I was.
And I could just focus on being creative.
It's interesting too.
Cause, um, one of the things I've been doing in my end Joe is I've been using chat GBT as well.
Yeah.
Where I'm trying to.
match your creativity on my side trying to mimic some of your process.
And I've got one particular chat, because I guess there's no memory limitations on it now or something, that basically is like my Elderholt expert.
Okay, yeah.
I'm at the point now where we've gone well beyond the initial premise behind it, but it knows so much about Elderholt.
I'm like, hey, here's what I'm thinking, or I need this that fulfills X, Y, Z.
Here's some ideas of what I was thinking about.
What do you got?
and it will come up with shit.
And then it's just like, no, that's not quite right.
And they're like directing it.
That's what I do.
Yeah.
So I have a, I keep a whole photo structure.
So it has its own memory, but it can actually, I give it instructions of my photo structure.
So he knows how to find shit.
So it actually would then know how to go look into the folders and pull out new contexts.
And this is what I always have to be watched for a bit because it can leak information.
where it will look into photos and pull my DM notes and start writing it down, so I have to, everything it produces, I have to read through it like, are you leaking?
Are you leaking any of my secrets?
I will say I think you leaked a secret of my timeline to me.
Did I?
Yeah.
What was it?
I'll tell you later.
Okay.
It's not like she can tell you in front of us.
Oh, probably not.
It was probably intentional.
Okay.
I had to put forward to be put in your timeline, I had to put public.
Okay.
There's probably something then that I need to talk to you about, but we'll do that later.
It's not important now.
What was the drought transformation timeline?
Do you want to point to it?
They come back.
No, they became witches.
Oh, they're turning back to drought?
Just two words in our chat.
See if you can figure it out.
The future has been unveiled.
It's a drought apocalypse.
Do you want to just point to it?
No?
You just put it in the chat?
Okay.
You like that?
I think I can do it that way.
I'm gonna draw on Christine.
Oh yes, elite.
Elite.
Motherfucker.
Forget.
Sorry.
So I know Marwin doesn't.
That makes you feel better.
I'll do a better job.
That's the only time I, only thing I smell like that.
I've been pretty good at it.
Yeah.
That's been there since the first version of the timeline.
I just kept forgetting to talk to you about it.
Okay.
Yep.
I like that though.
But yes, that is the kind of stuff you have to please.
That is the stuff I have to please.
And here's the thing.
This is where LLMs fail.
So here's the problem about an LLM.
you cannot say, so LNM sees tokens, right?
And tokens, you can think of them as a way to search.
But it doesn't necessarily do a good job at correlating tokens with themselves, meaning that you say, hey, I do not want you to leak this bit of information, but now I just gave it the tokens for it to go get that information.
And so then what that means is you can't put things not.
Instead, you have to put it positively.
You have to say, only look in this folder.
Only go in this section.
You have to correct it.
You can't tell it no.
You have to say, hey, that's not right.
Here are the actual facts.
No, I'm talking about the original prompts.
So in the first prompt, I can't say, pull this and do not include this because then I'm giving the prompt the tokens
to do the thing I don't want it to do.
It can work, but it doesn't always work.
It's more likely to leak.
So what that means is, is that I have to do the prompt and then I look to see if it, right?
There, you can try, you can tell it, like you can break things up into sections.
So you can say, don't, do not include this section.
You can do that.
Um, but that means that I had to broken it up in sections.
Oftentimes it's narrative.
So my secrets are with my public information because it's in narrative.
Yes.
I'm venting a little bit.
I'm a bit embarrassed to leak that motherfucker.
Sorry.
Fucking bot.
Is it at least a really cool spoiler?
Don't tell me obviously, but it's, it's one of those things that if it hadn't been leaked, could have been like a late game reveal.
Oh,
It could have been a big surprise for me down the road.
Instead, I, Christine, no.
Well, Marwin will be surprised.
It's OK. We're going to have a prophetic moon.
I'll do a better job to police it.
So one of the solutions I can have is I can have a, it's hard.
So I can automate it so I can make a certain LNM checks to see if things have leaks.
But then that LNM needs to have a concept of what leaks look like.
The nice thing is, my faction doesn't have any secrets or big spoilers or anything.
We're really simple and straightforward.
Yep.
No plot hooks there?
I mean, honestly, what I said is not entirely untrue.
Okay.
It's okay.
There's like nothing going on in the background of my faction.
It is definitely a misdirection, but it is not as much as I made it sound with the sarcasm.
So, Joe, our general thought for structure here would be to do the Goblin, still in this day,
Get a long rest.
You should have just lied to me.
What?
If you were a good friend, you would lie to me.
You would pretend you didn't know.
You're the one who likes feedback.
It's fine.
It's fine.
Okay, so you want me to lie to you next time?
No, I know, because then I'll be angry at you.
You can't wait.
Alright?
You didn't realize you were in another marriage?
I've been putting up with you a lot longer than I've been putting up with you, so.
I only know how this works if it varied for 10 years.
There's no right answer, Christine.
Thank you for sharing.
It'll be all right.
I have all the secrets.
Yep.
All right, so our thought was goblins, long rest, spiders, and then we're going to do shopping and prepare for the expedition.
Are you doing goblins and spiders, or are you doing one or the other?
Well, today, we're just looking to do the goblins.
There's always the possibility.
Spiders are still availability in the morning.
We'll do that.
Look, you gave us three missions, we're gonna try to do all three missions.
Look, we just learned it'll cost us 100 gold just to go on the next mission, we're greedy.
I gave you three options, and we selected C, all of the above.
Or D, I mean.
But I see that you've all decided you want all of it.
I mean, it's entirely possible that the spider option just doesn't work.
Yeah, if somebody else does it by the morning, then we'll just go shopping and prepare for our next mission.
I think that was a convenient way to find the options in here.
Yeah, it's a shame.
A shame, yeah.
A shame.
We meant no preview options on there.
Yeah, no preview.
This is... Well, that'd be a good ruin.
Yeah, I kind of like that one.
I don't know why my finger's on it now.
I don't know what else.
Oh, that's like a key.
I could do my key.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
All right, we're gonna use this one, because it can be like an old school thing.
Okay, so...
Use your point.
Chris, you're wrong.
This farm is advanced, Jeff.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, hey, baby, will you give me my... Kombucha?
No, the blue one.
Yeah, that one.
Are you out of spells, Christine?
I know.
I did hit one back.
because of my wizard ability, Arching Recovery.
Once per day, she can shortlist to get a spell slot.
So I have a single spell to my name.
So yeah, Christina has one spell slot, I have two, and Jeff has all his resources forever.
We are not topped off.
This will definitely be the last thing we can possibly handle for the day because of level one.
But you know my other regret?
What?
Is I...
really was 10, I added a feature into the timeline to remove the ticks.
So it's all relative.
And I was like, you know, I'll do that and tell Christine it's just, it's, you know, she's just been told these things.
So she doesn't know exactly where anything's at.
And I, I'll be fine.
I'll keep the ticks in there.
And then Christine's like, Oh, I want the actual timestamps.
And I see, I knew if I just didn't put in the ticks that you couldn't have any way to know.
and say, yeah, you'll stop with that, then I wouldn't, you know?
I mean, here's the funny thing, if there's any one of us who could have done that too, it would have been me.
I know.
I had a good excuse.
I could have done it and not, and just buzzed it.
Yep, and you didn't.
And I didn't.
Hey, look, you asked for feedback again, remember?
I actually know.
You want criticism.
That was my thing about, hey, make this tool easier to use.
I actually really liked it.
It does feel better.
I've made it so much easier because now I know how to read it as well.
But like, get things in chronological order.
No, no.
It totally was a really good suggestion.
Really great.
Really good improvement.
Especially because I appreciate everyone else except for the interview shared so you don't know what it looks like.
And that's better.
Good, because I had been meaning to tell you that it was really hard to read the timeline.
What I did, what Christine suggested, really good suggestion, was to put the age and time stamp in the bottom right corner.
Ooh.
Okay.
It makes it so much easier to read.
That would be really nice.
Yeah, so it was really good, really good.
All right, so now you can get back at me.
This is the crow.
Oh, yeah.
So you can position it to heckle me as we go forward, Joe.
I love the heckling crow.
Yeah, it has an owl.
The secret that Vazgar didn't reveal about the crow was that it appeared to do an eye roll of its own, and Vazgar decided that no, it did not.
Yes.
So there you go.
Now you know.
Mmm.
Yes.
Here's my pony by the way.
Kro doesn't always laugh though.
It only laughs if it's um... Well guys, it's rough taking care of familiars.
Well I figured we'll go to the local area.
I wouldn't bring my pony around so...
It makes sense.
I have no choice about that thing.
You guys head out, I believe this is, never eat celery waffles west, about two miles from Anderford.
Is it Ardenford or Anderford?
I thought Ardenford.
Ardenford.
Ardenford.
It's a western front land.
And there you see a, um, Muren Redbrick is his name.
You got that from the Wanda poster.
Yeah.
Um, and he is your stereotypical sheep herder with, uh, your stereotypical long cane with a round hook.
Um, very laid back, just tending to Meryn Redwick.
Does that sound like a female or a male?
Meryn sounds more like a male name to me, but he's a male.
My name is Meryn.
So it's, I, it's all relative.
Marin, so, um, what month?
I've been saying it's cold.
So we're going to make this not December because it's not snow.
We're heading into the snow, I would say.
Let me pull up my...
Does that mean the adventuring season is going to wrap up soon?
Why would that... Why?
Why?
Winter's cold.
Why would you stop adventuring just because it's cold?
You would stay inside.
No, then you actually put a couple firsts on it.
It's kind of not cold yet.
It's when you do work.
In the winter months, you stay inside.
Inside of what?
Your character might be aware of this.
I would say this, the ruins would actually be a really good option.
For the winter?
Yeah, because underground.
Oh, so consistent temperature.
That's a good point.
I forgot about that.
So probably the uptick in the winter.
So your thing would be not surface ruins.
It would be underground ruins.
Yeah.
Okay.
But the surface ruins are probably also the ones that are most often picked clean anyway.
But why are expeditions where the ruins are?
Yeah, because high-end mountains and stuff may be lost, so.
Yeah.
In volcanoes.
That lava map.
I am lucky for it's winter, not yet winter, early winter, so it is.
I gotta put this somewhere.
Did you make up your own months?
Yes.
And I can't pronounce, I can't, it's R-ith-um.
It's what?
It's R-ith-um.
R-ith-um.
Can you spell that for us please?
A-R-E-T-H. A-R-E-T-H?
T-H-U-N. U-N. R-ith-um?
R-ith-um.
Oh no, wait, how do you pronounce it?
Is it A-E-R that's pronounced like A-R-E?
Yeah, it is A-R-E Synthetically, I have A-H-R-E-T-H-O-L-M So it's A-R-E-T-H-O-N A-R-E-T-H-O-N A-R-E-T-H-O-N A-R-E-T-H-O-N A-R-E-T-H-O-N A-R-E-T-H-O-N A-R-E-T-H-O-N A-R-E-T-H-O-N A-R-E-T-H-O-N A-R-E-T-H-O-N A-R-E-T-H-O-N A-R-E-T-H-O-N A-R-E
Okay.
So they're not Alvin Dwarven.
Right.
So are we like towards the like the latter part of fall, the start of fall?
Early winter.
Early winter.
So we're like November, December timeline.
Is there like an end of year ritual or anything?
Yeah, what's the winter solstice holiday like?
Depends which city you're in.
That's fair.
There's a lot of cultures out there.
I mean art info would probably be the most pressing one to ask about at some point, but... We should do it, whatever it is.
Yeah.
I hear everybody equips their Larvae stars.
It is when it gets really cold and the day gets very short.
Shortest of the year.
You have days where you're from, right?
I think we went over this one.
I understand days.
I understand time.
It's actually a really sweet holiday.
It's good for stargazing and such, when it's not cloudy.
I really like the fires.
I suppose, let me put it this way, would you name individual hours of the day?
Noon, that is a name of an individual hour.
I guess if I lived to be a million years old,
could make up whatever rules I wanted for time.
That doesn't matter.
That was fine.
It's also completely bullshit because I'm sure we actually have a societal timeline.
Mara is at the top of the hill and he is just, um, no, how does he look?
He just looks mostly
ordinary, dressed very light for being so brisk out here, but that's probably just because he's used to the cold more so than anything else.
I know, we don't celebrate winter solstices.
And as you come by, he first just like waves at you like you're just gonna be passer-byers and then ignores you.
It's only when you start getting closer does he then redirect his gaze at you, realizing that you're heading in his direction.
These are planes after all, and you can see quite far ahead from
where you're headed.
And once you get to them, the grass, by the way, is beautiful and lush.
It is still cold.
There's a few trees, but it's just a beautiful landscape.
One more beautiful than the forest that you came from in comparison.
I like it.
We're not on his property yet, right?
As far as I know.
There's no real line, so you have no way to know how much it's his, or if any of it's his, and this is just, he's allowed to be here with his sheep.
I'm just gonna admire some of the grass, and then take out a pair of scissors, and cut, and put it in my bag.
Okay, yeah, that's not gonna bother anyone.
Okay.
Yeah.
Hail little sheep man, we are here about the job, the goblins and such.
I love Basghar.
Oh hey.
You're an orc.
Yes, do not- try not to be terrified of me if it's getting old.
Or making that face, that particular face is- We're here to help.
Yes, that.
There was a job posting up the way of our compass?
And we orcs are very good at hitting goblins and other such things.
And people who stare too long.
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
I did, I do.
I have a problem, a Gondolin problem.
I'm not the most wealthiest, but I can pay you good enough if you help.
It's what, 70 gold?
For each of us, what, 210 then?
Yeah.
So the pasting was four?
Yes, 70 gold.
Yes.
Where...
Are the goblins coming from?
Can you direct us a bit?
Are we defending the herd here?
Are we going after the goblins there?
What is your thought on this?
Over here.
He walks on the other side of the hill.
And when you follow, he points under yonder and you see a resemblance of a keep.
He seems just a little slow.
Just in general, like, his demeanor, like, is not...
Okay, it's not him being suspicious so much as, like...
I know, and he's suspicious.
He's processing a lot.
But for you, it's definitely, like, processing.
The suspicion and processing, it's both.
Which direction have they been coming from?
Do you know?
They kill sheep.
I get that.
but they have to come here to do it.
Do you know what direction they're coming from?
North, East, West, South?
I think it's back there.
I think it's there.
Okay.
Maybe they're just coming head on and we'll just go there and take care of things.
Okay.
Are there actually sheep scattered around here?
No.
The sheep go up with him.
Okay.
So...
Yes, we will protect sheep.
Sheep man!
Alright.
Sheep man.
Indeed.
So what do you think?
Do you think they're in there?
Full frontal assault.
Do we think they're in there and we're going to them, or do we wait here for them to come to us?
I think we go there.
because if they are in there and readying to go, they are not readying to be attacked.
Okay.
That's sound.
How, like the farmer, does he have like a house or like active land or anything?
Or is it like a sheet pen?
He just got sheep grazing on the hill, you know, to the house.
There's nothing, no nothing, okay.
He's just out in the middle of the field.
Are they spread pretty far or are they flocked pretty close together?
They're all together now, Ham.
He's keeping them together.
Okay.
You see a dog that he uses.
The dog's just there sleeping, chilling.
Okay.
He's presuming that they're not, like,
I mean, you can roll a investigation check.
Do any of us come from lands that do a lot of herding?
Because I assume we don't.
I don't know.
But Jeff knows how cheap herding works.
So 25.
You very quickly figure out that the sheep must be coming at the night because obviously the goblins Because he clearly is like This man Maybe he could hold his own, but they're coming during the day like He's more limited is what I'm gathering it
It makes, it makes the most sense that they're not being fun to confrontational, just based on the fact that they didn't kill him.
He's still alive and he's fine.
He does not look very competent.
If they had just rushed him during the day, he would not still be here.
He is, he is very content to spend the entire day just watching the sheep and hurting them.
You're not even sure where he sleeps.
The other part you, I mean, you wrote a what, a 25?
Yes.
That would have been able to pass an impossible track, wouldn't it?
Yeah.
Impossible.
So that I would share.
You see that you can find goblin tracks.
You see that they're clearly coming.
So you know they're at night.
You know they come there.
And you're also gonna see that they are in the direction of the farmer pointed to, that you're seeing them coming from this thing.
You can also see that them there from multiple days that they are regularly coming and snatching sheep at the night.
Okay.
Oh, you also find when he sleeps.
It's just a nice little like, just like a bed roll in the grass.
All right.
You stay awake, watch sheep until we come back.
Give me
Give me 11 minutes.
11, that is oddly specific, but okay.
And I'm gonna go ahead and you'll see Mark.
Actually, you know what, I think the first minute is.
Take it, pony.
Probably not, since I paid too gold to staple him for a while.
Oh, okay, all right.
I thought about getting him out.
It depends, does Lear want to come?
Who?
My pony, Lear.
You need to be a good animal.
I don't want to be a good animal.
I could ask if you wanted me to.
I have to go by my vibe.
Does the pony look restless?
Yeah.
You did pay the dwarf a gold.
What came through?
Two gold.
No, no.
The dwarf sees one gold to stay to keep him, then two gold for the pig.
So you got one whole gold for pampering, huh?
Yeah, I paid it in advance.
And the dwarf came through.
He is a man of his word.
So I check on Lear before we leave.
Does Lear look comfortable or does Lear want to come with?
Very comfortable.
If Lear's content and I'm not going to take him out on a cold night just for the sake of having a pony.
Bird lands on your head.
Let me work here.
So Marwyn takes some time to pull out some string from her pocket, untangling it, and this is like my backup option here.
I'm gonna originally cast Alarm.
Oh, gross, gross, she is just chilling on your head.
There's quite a long time where Vazgar is just staring at this interaction.
Gross, gross, she is off.
Cause it, she advance at a sheep.
So I'm gonna lay down an Alarm.
as like a backup in case things go wrong when we're trying to enable the goblins.
And so you'll see her actually take the time to take some of the string, tie it off taunt, and then she'll tap it twice, uttering the words, line laid, error remembers, cross it wrong, sound answers.
And I'm gonna make it an audible alarm, that way it'll alert the sheep man, it'll alert us, and it might scare the goblins if they get past us to get here.
That's not cost me a spell.
Does Marwen inform the party of her conclusions?
The goblins are coming at night, they specifically did not kill this guy, that stuff?
Yes, I think as she, after she sets this up, she'll explain.
I think Maren here is right.
They're coming from the keep.
They're attacking at night and they haven't hurt him at all.
They've been leaving him alone.
So they're waiting till he goes to sleep.
before they're attacking.
I didn't think about that part.
I wonder why.
Have they left anything for you?
God, that was to you.
I'm sorry.
To Marin, to the sheep farmer, have the goblins left anything in trade for the sheep?
No.
Whoa, a people skill.
Persuasion.
Yeah, people.
I guess persuasion is probably the best thing.
It's kind of the same problem with leadership.
Insight, maybe?
You can use insight.
Insight or persuasion, either or.
I'm going to take the moment to guide into myself.
I think I just do that as a almost instinctive thing.
It's just a soft hum.
As I think about this um So 11 You passed it's an easy check What you wanted to know um It's a staffed or barter yeah, is this that is it like straight up after did they make an attempt at trading and he just didn't recognize it and
Like they're leaving presents behind.
He complains about trash.
And when you look at that trash, you see that the goblins was leaving him what they thought were treasures.
But like old forks, like kind of like primitive things.
Something from a primitive mind would see value that the farmer's like, this is trash.
Like an old knife.
And so he... Nutility things.
So he's like,
Yeah, they leave trash.
They thank me with trash.
They're trading with you.
Damn it.
You don't think you see anything in him?
Well, you can't outstair Sabriel, that's for sure.
There's this long awkward stare.
You can go to persuasion if you want to help him understand.
He's a simpleton, so just a five.
You can't fail.
To them, this like money.
What is your bonus of persuasion?
Persuasion is plus four.
You don't need a bonus.
You convinced him.
There's a long stare until you realize that there's just nothing in there, and then you realize he needs a little
lower, like you just...
I can pace him.
You pace him?
I can pace him.
I can just wait it.
You have to just walk into it step by step slowly.
Yeah.
And then he gets it.
He doesn't know what to do with that information.
Negotiate.
You think perhaps maybe he doesn't do the negotiation, maybe we do the negotiation.
I'm not sure that
He's very good at such things.
What would you get at market for a sheep?
70 gold.
That's a lot.
That's a lot of money for a sheep, yeah.
Can they?
Animals are usually that money, aren't they?
Cows are really lame.
It depends.
It depends.
One of the things about D&D gold is it does not make sense if you compare it to, like, dollars.
Not only did things cost different, but internally it's not very well-consistent.
Because, I mean, like, animals are expensive.
Animals are pretty expensive.
Animals are expensive.
Animals are usually more gold than not.
Oh, yeah, so you push, like, too gold in D&D, find it?
Well, gold is usually very valuable in the commoners, like in D&D.
Well, like, somebody might make only too gold for the year.
If they're, like, dirt farmers.
They're a regular person.
Adventurers are obviously a weird exception.
So the way I've been thinking about it is we're next to an adventuring community that's probably inflated the circulation.
There's a lot more value.
So here's what we're going to do.
Animals are expensive across the board and that's just economy 101.
There's a lot of ventures so I am going to stick with that sheep or sandy gold and animals
Across the board are going to cost more money.
So don't go off there.
I'll add it to my house rules.
And I mean, if Ardenford is well off, it could be that the average salary of a person is considerably higher than D&D assumes it is.
The economy could be skewed, given it's also the age of trade and everything.
Yeah, it's the age of trade.
Which can affect things like...Dragonheim had a skewed economy too.
Correct.
For those reasons.
I would assume we're in an uptick of
Economy, yeah, it's very wealthy.
Yeah, also something You get some new people who can make they even in the world world You'd be there's some weird professions that make a lot of money.
Oh, yeah No in D&D though the whole like to gold a thing for a peasant is for like the dirt farmers There are people who make hundreds of gold be grassmen just like doing a
professional jobs.
I would say that he is wealthy compared to other comers.
He just does something that makes a lot of money and he's good at it.
Good at his end.
He's good with the sheep.
He literally just stays out here in the hills watching his sheep.
Probably has a lot of money somewhere.
Cause he doesn't need it.
So, his needs are not high.
They could not afford to pay him 70 gold.
I am.
No.
If they're living out of ruins, I suspect not.
And paying in forks.
If we convince them to protect him and his sheep for one night of sheep or whatever, could that be making up the value?
Maybe if he has any other threats to his likelihood.
Wolves, I imagine, are pretty commonly threatened sheep.
classically in Voltaire.
I think this sounds reasonable.
If you can explain this to him and see if he is okay with this plan, we can then take it to the goblins.
Right, can we convince the farmer that the goblins are providing him a service for the sheep by protecting his flock from other threats?
or that we can make this a deal.
That does not sound like an easy sell.
I will let you roll.
Let me look at my difficulty chart.
I think I'm gonna make that a hard check, which is a 15.
Guidance.
Should I make a new posting channel for house rules or should I just post it on the world?
Um, you had a section for might have been character creation notes, but I think we need a separate place for house rules.
Okay.
I'll make a new form for house rules.
Like 21 Joe.
Geez.
21.
Yeah, this is something that they're actually better at.
So you are fine.
Because for you,
This very long conversation, just a moment.
For the two of you, it is so infuriating.
And it takes so long, even being part of it.
Do you walk away?
Do you stay there?
I'm locked in here for like an hour at least.
Yeah.
Vaz walks away.
Okay, I definitely at some point I like walk off.
I have a conversation with the sheep They're not very good conversational either and that gets old And I probably wander off where Baz is still after the alarmist This is taking a little too long for my liking I think Baz is literally just walked off and started doing weapon drills and stuff just practicing warming up his muscles You convinced him
Um, but I guess part of, I guess you did well, is that you're saying, how do you know it's going to work?
Well, this is the deal we're presenting.
Okay.
Cause we have to convince the goblins.
We're recontextualizing the conflict because there's no way they can pay him 70 goals a sheet.
He agrees.
He agrees.
He agrees that like, um,
It's a really hard thing for me to role-play because I'm not in the city for an hour.
Yeah.
But you, after a very long conversation, are able to get him on board.
Yeah.
It's a long conversation with the fewest words you've ever heard.
Yeah.
And one of the things I note, not only do you not find him... You actually find him to be very humble.
Yeah.
But he's just a very humble, chilled guy and you just gotta walk at his speed.
Yeah, as part of this, I am going to, I don't know if there's like a small blessing I can give him, just like narratively.
Oh yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, I just give him a, like once we reach the end of the negotiation, I like just reach out and like give him a little religion check.
Okay.
Good, nope.
15.
Okay.
Yes, you don't always do that.
Yeah.
Yeah, I like that.
He feels blessed.
Yeah, thank you.
I think I see how this is going.
The first encounter, I was good.
I did wonderful.
No want to brag.
Kind of to brag.
Um, the second encounter, you do wonderful.
This is your moment.
The third encounter with spiders, this will be your moment.
I don't believe that's how life works, Vasco.
No, absolutely not.
But you're going to have to try.
This is your objective.
I am trying.
Is to make this your moment when we fight the spiders.
I am trying.
Can't you see that?
Gah!
No, I think you are trying.
And you have not done badly or anything.
I just think it will be glorious for you when we fight the stupid spiders.
Just don't beat them.
I'm going to try not to.
I will also try not to let you beat them.
I'm just having this conversation off of the side while they're doing this.
I'm gonna take the goblin drunk and say, now we have to go finish the negotiation.
The sun sets.
Are you done?
Thank you.
You are done.
We have to convince the goblins to protect the sheep and we're gonna give them their treasures back.
Hopefully they're better conversationalists.
Do you want me to loom?
I'm very good at looming.
Yes, I can loom.
Alright.
So, shall we?
Mm-hmm.
Okay.
Onward.
We're wandering into the real- Why don't you try to convince them, though?
Because I just have- You were busy, but I just had this conversation about how you were having your moment to be the great hero.
We're just talking to people.
Yes, this is a form of heroism.
You're solving conflict without actually doing the conflict part.
It is actually pretty impressive.
Doesn't usually work.
It is very rare that this works.
So when it works, it's pretty impressive.
I'd be really impressed with both of them, realizing, oh hey, actually, what else?
A long conversation?
Nothing.
Nothing.
Absolutely nothing.
I could do this all day.
You did.
If I had a concept of a plot point, I'd give it to you, but instead I would reward you with a success.
There is.
Hero of Conspiration is plot points, basically.
Yeah?
Yeah, it's uh...
Hero of Conspiration is... That's like the re-roll I did earlier.
Humans get that every long rest, but others don't.
You have to earn it through your play.
You have to re-roll them.
You want one?
Yeah.
Yeah, you get one.
Full world plan.
Inspiration.
Rolling an elf.
Awesome.
I'll use it.
Okay.
How does it work?
Does it give you a free roll?
It gives you advantage with a free roll, right?
Yeah, it gives you, it basically free rerolls the same thing as an image.
Yeah, it's basically, yeah.
The difference is you get, you spend it after you see the result of your die.
Oh.
I rolled a nat one earlier, that's when I burn mine for being too thin.
So it's better than a roll, because you can just choose not to use it if you don't need it.
You get to pick your moment.
Yeah, it's very good, but you can only have one at a time, obviously.
Yeah, then it's gone.
Or what would you spend it, it's gone until you earn it again.
Alright, let's go talk to some goblins.
Am I really the point worker on this?
Am I doing the talking?
You do not want to?
I suppose we don't have all night, so that's a fact.
Hey Joe, what do I know about goblins?
Do you have a skill check for that?
Probably, but I don't know what it would be.
I am proficient in nature and I cannot.
People are often history.
I do not, I'm not proficient in a skill like that.
I am smart, but I don't know.
I am not the history person of the group.
I am.
I'm the history person of the group.
I would say that you, history makes the most sense.
I was debating nature, but nature covers so much already.
Um, nature also does make sense.
Okay.
Like it depends.
I could see either one.
It depends on how you view gobbles.
What do you want to know about the gobble?
I think if you focus more on the animal nature of goblins, I'm focused more on the communication aspects.
I, or Marwin doesn't, I'm not sure if Marwin knows if they're going to be able to communicate.
Yeah.
Well, nature, nature's fine.
Cause they even like, well, cause they have, they live in 13.
Yeah.
They speak work.
Oh, I guess it is going to be, uh, goblins typically speak work.
Workish.
Sorry, Orgish.
I do not know that language.
I wonder if we know anybody who possibly speaks this language.
I'm kidding, of course.
OK.
So yeah, I think you should take a little lead here.
Yes.
Don't worry.
We're going to back you up.
Can you do that thing you do?
Yay.
OK, yeah, we're going to head on into the ruins.
I will even be diplomatic and not have my shielded axe out.
I will be not unarmed, but not carrying my arms.
I'm going to stumble around in the dying light of the day, because I don't want to have fire in my hand.
That might sound like a wrong message.
You lantern.
That'll work.
OK.
So you're approaching the thing.
How are you approaching it?
Not subtly, because I don't think we want to sneak up on them.
I don't know how they're gonna react, but I figure if we sneak up on them and get caught, the reaction would be worse than if we walk in.
And in fact, I think as we approach, Baskar's probably gonna yell out in Orcish.
That's apparently what he does.
So he's going to, as we approach the ruins, call out in Orcish,
Hello goblin folk!
I have a proposition for you!
I should probably dump this down, shouldn't I?
Goblins!
Make trade!
You see a little head poke up and then an orcish... You got humans following you?
Yes I do.
They're... useful.
Need help?
No.
I can take them.
Oh.
We help.
That makes that sound again.
No, um... You and the sheep, um... You're making trade?
Maybe we want to help.
He smiles with all of his teeth.
Can you explain what mean?
Yeah.
convince them that we don't know they're taking the sheep.
And if they protect the sheep, the farmer will give them one.
And then it should be the same amount.
Oh, that was clever than just asking about the sheep.
Yeah.
Which is what I just did.
That's fine.
They won't remember.
You guys!
You humans!
Yes, um.
We serve the grape, Asgar.
Did you say that in Orc?
No, I can't speak Orc.
Also you're yelling at this point too, so you would have to yell.
It's quite far away.
Yeah, we don't know what's happening.
We're just hearing this back and forth in the pantomime room.
You see one goblin with his head, and you see him make this gesture a few times.
He seems to be referring to the two of you.
Can we come in and talk?
He's a little unquiet.
He's looking at you.
You're not friends.
Infection.
They really don't like you guys.
I don't know why.
Um, but... Will you be safe going in there?
Yes.
Okay.
Here's their treasures.
Oh, excellent.
You need to sweeten the pot.
I'm sorry.
If things get bad... Then yell.
You will hear me.
Okay.
I will yell.
Okay.
They will also yell.
Um... Why don't you send your wiggle?
I can do that?
How do you know I can do that?
I'm out of character making suggestions.
I don't think I'm making any suggestions.
So you go to talk to them?
Yeah, I guess I'm going to go in and talk to them.
Do not be ambushed out here.
I don't know why they would ambush you and not the sheepard.
I'm going to put Flickr on you.
Hello weasel.
And I'm going to put a hand on Sabriel's shoulder.
I need you to shake me or squeeze my hand or something if things get bad out here.
And then my eyes will go completely white and I will begin to start looking through Flickr's senses so I can watch the conversation on Jeff's end.
Okay.
She is getting weirder and weirder.
Okay, I'm gonna go into the keep, into the ruins.
Okay, so you enter the ruins.
Um, and... Give me a perception check.
Oh, I am so good at those.
Three.
You see the one goblin.
Yeah, that sounds about right.
Why did you travel with him?
How do I explain this?
He starts walking around you, inspecting you.
They are my friends.
They are companions who are helping me with jobs.
You look southern.
I am southern.
Where's all the skulls?
Knox's little skull earring, his little bird skull earring.
Human skulls!
I do not have any.
Really?
You look so... human.
He's just looking suspicious.
Are we going to have a problem, Little Goblin Man?
Do you want to vote?
Are you voting?
Are you voting intimidation?
Yeah, I think I am.
Okay.
I realize so you call for the perception check for him.
Can I roll since I can see through Flicker's eyes?
Sure.
If there's a chance I see something that he doesn't.
Yeah.
I don't understand the conversation, but.
You know what?
I'll give you an advantage, because I think you have...
I like it.
I think it makes sense you have an advantage.
Actually, would this be flicker stats or mine?
I think it would be yours, because it's your percept, your ability to notice things.
So 12, Joe.
I'm sorry.
It's okay.
I figured I should try.
Yeah, what about intimidation?
It'll be, um, hold on.
You are Orc, see, it's a hard check, which is 15, but you get an advantage.
Oh, I like advantage.
For race.
Oh, with advantage, that is a 21.
21.
Yay, advantage, that made a big difference.
You're intimidating.
How do you convince him that you are indeed an Orc of the Southern Tribe?
Like you are to be, are you just, that's all you say, and that's enough?
Do you think he is barbaric in nature, like he's a godline?
Yeah, I think like,
You know, he calls me human.
Like, there's this back and forth.
And Basgar kind of, the civilized, like reasonable orc kind of just disappears.
And he looks down at this goblin who is way smaller than him.
He very menacingly starts to loom.
The body language becomes not just, I am bigger than you, but I am so much bigger than you.
Okay, so you just use your size.
It's the size and and the like the manners and stuff go away.
The face just okay, the expression changes.
He's there's the kind of like the barbarian comes out.
Yeah, the barbarian on like the goblin almost like dog light respects it is the best way that he responds to it defensively.
But you can see he now sees you as one of them.
Not like uncivilized, not human.
Where are you going from here then?
Okay, let me think.
You're taking the sheep.
You're giving treasures for them.
Is this... this is what you are doing?
Yes, of course.
Keep angry human away.
Instead you could guard the sheep.
Earn them.
be given a sheep to protect the sheep.
Humans don't understand things like that.
They need stuff.
This human does not need stuff.
You have seen him.
He sleeps in a cot on the ground with his sheep and he does not go places.
He sleeps like a king.
Yes, perhaps.
But he does not go to a shiny house.
He does not collect big weapons.
He does not spend his money on things
except that nice bed.
All right.
All right.
I just, I wanna fight you guys.
But I, you forced my hand so you can roll a persuasion.
You did this when you made the goblins.
Like, not just psychotic murder machines.
My mistake.
It's okay, we can't negotiate with giant spiders, Joe.
Yeah, that's true.
I guess, actually, I could.
I don't think you're going to do it.
I welcome you to try.
Before you roll, I need to make a side of the difficulty because otherwise... You don't want it to influence you.
Yeah.
So I think... What did you give him the guidance for?
What skill?
You can just use it.
I don't think you...
I think you have to declare a skill now.
I think it should be easy because you are an orc.
You make a good argument.
It would have been intimidation.
You pass your first check with intimidation.
So he believes you are, in fact, a southern orc.
So yeah, easy.
Which is ten.
Uh oh.
Five.
And you're not the one with the heroic inspiration.
I don't have the heroic inspiration.
I didn't realize you had to choose a skill now.
I thought you could apply it to any ability check using the chosen skill.
I believe...
I believe you have to pick a skill now.
That's how it works.
But then I think it lasts for longer, because guidance used to be what women done.
I honestly think that guidance is unchanged and we just weren't...
The thing is, guidance is used and then immediately used, so it never has mattered.
Okay.
But I think this is actually how it's always worked, is that you have to... You choose a skill to guide.
But then every time it takes, you just steal the roll.
I thought you were intimidating them into the negotiation, which is why I would've thought intimidation.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think that makes sense.
So we have the decore for the first roll, but not the second, I guess.
Yeah, I know what we're gonna do.
You choose the roll you'll buy it to.
I wanna say that you are in the ruins, and the goblins are over here, so that I can have this one map.
So put you guys over here, and Jeff, you're over here.
Okay.
The walls are barriers.
You can leap, you can jump over these walls with a DC-10 athletics track.
Yep, so we're not doing that.
Okay.
Some of you are not doing that.
That said, the Goblin is going to get low initiative.
You get your wish, Joe.
You tried.
Jeff, stop rolling just barely.
I know, I'm just rolling so hot.
Jeez.
At least with the combat stuff.
Less so with the social stuff's been 50-50.
They got a... Well, the part I like about this is win or lose, we pursued a logical course of avenue.
If they're choosing to pick a fight with us, we're responding, not auditioning.
It feels a lot better from the like,
Yeah.
It's a moral statement.
Yeah, because just murdering the goblins that were... You tried.
Making... Yeah, we tried.
You could have gone and... You almost had it.
Yeah, we tried.
We made a valiant try.
And they're deciding to take this too far.
So we're going to answer.
Also, point out, they may not fight to the death, depending...
Given that they wouldn't fight a single human... Yeah.
If all of a sudden Basghar heroes start showing them what an orc of the south can do, they might change their mind.
Well, what did you roll?
20.
Total.
This could be just part of a goblin negotiating.
What did you roll, Chris?
17.
I was starting to wonder.
I have a 16.
Okay.
What's your dex?
It's plus two.
My dex is 14.
Okay, great.
All right, Jeff, Woody.
The goblin goes to try to steal your axe.
Of course, you go first.
I'm going to give him my axe.
You don't take my weapons.
That is a line you do not cross.
Not as hot as previous fights, but that is a 12 to hit with the Battle Axe.
A 12 to hit with the Battle Axe?
Yeah.
12 to hit.
Yeah, 12 isn't going to do it.
Not enough?
Okay.
Yeah, I think he takes the swing.
The goblin kind of skitters to the side.
I think pulling the axes aren't really great for the whole quick draw kind of, you know, draw and swing kind of thing.
So the goblin has enough time to get out of the way, but now Baz has his ax in hand.
He takes a combat stance.
The shield hand doesn't have the shield on, but is ready like for grapple, for grab, for blocking.
Okay.
Wish I had thought to put the shield on before we got here, but.
Well, I mean, we're actual players in the world.
Hm?
We're actual players in a real world, why would you always have a shield equipped?
Yeah, right.
And it wouldn't look very talkative.
Right, no.
I definitely wouldn't have.
I wish that it was an option.
I wish shield equipping was easier, but it's an action.
That's not something I want to say right now.
Realistically, a shield would be an option.
It makes sense.
It makes sense.
It just makes shields clunky.
They're really good.
This is not a complaint about balance.
This is a...
I wish I could do everything.
That's my turn.
I swat at him.
Well, unlike Sabriel here, I see that the goblin went for his axe, and Basgar took a swing, because I'm looking through Flicker's eyes.
So what I'd like to do is I'm going to, back over here, speak and alert Sabriel.
Negotiations are not going well.
Prepare yourself.
I would like to, before I jump out of the senses, actually have Flickr kind of run down Vazgar and run over this goblin, and I want to use Flickr to grant the help action so he has advantage next turn.
Distraction ferret.
Distraction ferret.
Basically, I'll have advantage on my next flip, because this ferret's being distracted.
Yep, it's not going to be probably a thing I do very often, but in this circumstance, it makes sense to assist us.
And then after I do that, I'll jump out of Flickr's senses
and I will prepare produce flame with my bonus action and start to move this away.
What does Flickr do?
Is this like crawling on face, biting all over?
I think what happens is Flickr like kind of runs down your body real quick and runs up the goblins, kind of like up around shoulders, sort of like just that, oh God, what the hell just happened?
Kind of moment, it's just enough to be off putting when everything else is happening so quickly.
And then I'm gonna start moving in, because I saw Mazgar go this way.
Because of the Purdue flame, I do have some light.
10.
I also gave you a lamp.
That's right.
15.
Is that a wall?
Oh, I see a goblin there.
You know how soon as you go there, you see a goblin.
OK. You are sneaking.
OK. Do these act as cover or anything?
Like, could I slip through here to get behind a wall?
Yeah.
Then I'm going to go ahead.
Well.
Son of a bitch.
You walk right into them.
This did not go well.
The answer to your question is, yes, that could be used as cover.
All right.
Important question for you, Joe, is we never discussed how we're going to treat familiars.
Did it actually cost me my action to have Flickr take the help action, or do I still have an action?
You still have an action.
All right.
I am going to go ahead and prepare for defense, and I'm going to cast Blade Ward on myself.
OK.
So I will cross my forms in front of me, and there will be a small shimmer of magic, and I'm going to try not to die.
Okay.
Okay.
That'll be my turn.
And it's your turn.
You see, because Christine went in there, describe what happens when you run into these goblins.
So Marwyn, she alerted you, and the negotiations were not going well.
You see her
Hand erupts in flame and she begins to advance and she's looking around.
I think she looks left, sees the goblin there, quickly turns around the wall and runs into these other two and you see her starting to like back up a bit and getting ready to defend herself.
There's a lot of them, Sabriel.
Okay.
Um, well, I don't like the fact that there's two goblins next to you, so I'm gonna target the bright green one and I'm going to cast Sacred Flame down on that, so Dexterity save DC-13 on the bright green goblin.
This guy?
Yep.
He's dead.
Well, he got three.
So effectively, he facepalmed that one.
What are you casting?
Sacred Flame.
Seven Radiant Damage.
The Silver Flame just erupts around him.
Good news, we don't have to save any bodies this time.
I think it's true.
Okay, so I believe it's...
Is there any cover I can get to?
And he's still up after the seven damage If you you can either run this way Or you could run up this with it and that will be exposed to that guy either way I'm exposed to that guy Yeah, I guess what I'll do is I'll divert its attention so I'll run down and
I'm just going to run up against, like...
Probably down by the corner.
Like where the other part of the other direction.
Like down that way, yeah.
Like here?
Yeah, maybe one more over.
Okay.
So I'll draw that guy's attention so you don't have 3 targeting you.
Okay.
And Bright Green was not killed by the 7 damage, correct?
No.
He was killed.
Okay.
Excellent.
That's why I'm double checking, because I need to know how sturdy these goblins are.
I just assumed he was going to make that.
That's right.
I took Christine's advice on not making them too powerful, level one adventurers.
Level one?
We're very squishy.
I was just getting so excited to see how squishy.
Okay?
Okay.
That said, before this session,
was the very thoughtful Joe making sure I didn't give myself anything too powerful.
But that Joe was in the past.
I'll point out, you didn't tell us how many goblins there are here.
No, we have no idea.
This could have been a really bad idea.
So here's an important thing to point out.
This area was pretty dense with goblins.
That is not the area they took me to.
That's probably the minority of the goblins.
Yep.
Your self, your, I'll give it to you, your perception check, both of yours, was to detect that they were sneaking up on you.
Basically, they were going around.
Oh, I assume they were hiding already.
They were already in hiding, but they were over here.
Gotcha.
And they migrated over here.
You guys are screwed, but I'm probably pretty good.
Don't worry, Joe.
It's your turn, I believe.
Yes.
Now you can start to stab him.
This guy pulls out a butter knife.
Now, when you roll this, because of Blade Ward, you have to add a d4, or you have to roll a d4 and subtract it from your total.
What?
So roll normally.
My spell means you have to roll out a pyramid guy, and you have to subtract that from your total.
Do you want to roll it?
You're kind of terrible.
I imagine you do that bad.
Thanks.
Well done.
Uh, so that would be 11.
It still hits me.
Didn't matter.
Oh no.
I think it's 11 plus two.
Yeah.
My armor class is terrible.
He did go pretty good.
He did.
So the magic, you know, he tried to help.
Tried.
Uh, three damage.
By the way, it's a butter knife.
It gave you a bad bruise but did not pierce.
Okay.
It's a really annoying guy.
This goblin is going to take the bait.
There's a wall here.
Well, it'll be fine.
He can go around it.
Leslie is bugging us about Pokemon Raids.
I'm being polite because technically there's a wall there and if you knew there was a wall there, you would have positioned yourself where the goblin could see you.
So that would probably be like over here.
Okay.
Cause I wanted to like interpret your intent.
I, I, I wanted to distract that goblin from gaining up on more harm.
Cause if you want to move me out there, that's fine.
Yeah.
Cause otherwise there's a wall here.
The goblin is too short to look over it.
So he would literally not see you, but there he can see you.
He sees you.
He's startled that you're behind him and decides that he needs to take care of the flank and be the hero.
He comes at you with a pot.
Just trying to make us feel bad again, Joe.
Oh, god.
A pot.
Yes?
It's an improvised weapon, so it's a 13.
It hits you?
No.
OK. All right.
These two have good armor classes.
Even if I didn't have my shield, which I don't know that I wouldn't, because I wasn't going in to negotiate.
You were told to stay outside and be ready.
So I think I have my shield, so my AC is 17.
Okay, you're more concerned that he's going to give up on the pot and use his teeth than the pot itself.
That said, I... One, two, three, four, and on my sheet of paper, there are five.
Keep throwing more in there.
This is the fifth one hiding here.
He comes out.
Because they just really wanted to come after us.
Well, I just want to be clear.
They hate humans.
I already decided this.
Oh, what item is it?
Improvised or not?
You know what?
I want to know if it's improvised.
High or low?
High.
High.
High.
It's improvised.
Should we try?
All right.
It's improvised.
I almost always pick high.
Yeah.
It's going to be, hmm.
That's a good improvised weapon.
I'm gonna go with a chair.
Now, why would a chair be out here?
A chair leg or like part of a chair?
Like the seat of a chair?
Yeah, ooh, seat.
It's the seat of a chair.
Minus a D4, now that's gonna matter.
Yeah, I will.
Also, I actually forgot I needed to concentrate.
Nope, nevermind, blame warp was gone anyway.
Really?
I rolled terrible.
You're having some bad luck.
I'm having terrible luck.
So yeah, so go ahead, do your damage.
That is a four.
So, four damage.
Okay.
Marwyn is bloodied.
Bloodied for the record.
When we declare that, Jo, it means we are half health or less.
Okay.
As...
I don't know where it hits me.
It's a goblin.
I don't know if it comes up the wall or whatever, but she is reeling after that hit.
Is it me?
Oh, he was going to stab you.
Yes, he gets the big stabbies.
19.
That will hit me.
Very cleanly.
He is...
Does he have a real weapon?
Yeah, he'll have a real weapon.
He has a...
He's the boss.
Of course he has a real weapon.
He has a scimitar.
Oh, jeez.
That's 8 damage.
Okay.
I am bloody.
Okay.
So what are you guys gonna do?
It's your turn now.
It's Bazgar first, right?
I believe it was Bazgar.
You have advantage because of Flicker.
I have advantage.
I am going to look at the little goblin who is now pissing me off quite severely.
Bazgar is going to second wind and heal back up to nine hit points.
I am no longer bloodied.
as kind of like the adrenaline starts kicking and they're like.
For me, I thought you were gonna rage.
And then I realized, wait a minute, no.
Wrong kind of barbarian.
It would be funny if this whole time Jeff's like, yeah, we're not doing the classic four person party.
I lie.
Are you a barbarian?
No, not a class barbarian.
Got it, got it.
But fighters get to kind of keep themselves in the fight second wind.
Captain America, I can do this all day.
Captain America, I can do this all day.
So with that,
I am going to, that's my bonus action, I am going to now as murderously as possible bring my axe against this goblin.
Doing some battle axing.
17 to hit?
Of course.
Then we'll see if this doesn't kill.
If this kills, then I was going for a trip, but it doesn't matter.
He's dead.
He's very dead.
If seven killed before,
12 definitely kills.
And then with him down, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, I'll start moving towards my allies, but I can't do my dash because I already used my bonus action.
Okay.
So that is me full action.
Christine, you got this.
I believe in you.
Um...
I don't know how this thing works.
Oh, I will be yelling in orcish get the fuck away from her Okay.
All right.
So Jeff I have not played around with spells very much as you will know so the question So when I am in a cone could I do I have to move to catch both of them or could I do that from here?
I think that catch both of them
Do you need a cone sheet?
I have one right here.
It looks to me like I can catch both, but I'm trying to double check because of the angle.
The question is mostly does the cone originate on you or does it come out?
I think that I need to check.
Um.
I don't.
Each of this 15 foot cone from south.
From south.
Okay, yeah.
So I'm the origin of it so that it would spread out the two from there, right?
I think so, yes.
Okay, then I'm going to once again pull out campfire ash, utter my phrase and I will blow it and I'm going to need a dexterity saving throw from both goblins, Joe.
Okay.
DC 13.
Mm, they both fail.
That'll be 10 fire damage to both.
They're both dead.
As this time around, unlike the skeleton, they were not so nimble, and when she blows the campfire as you see this gout of flame and see the goblins kind of like spasm-based as the flames roll over them, and then they drop as turned bodies.
Oh, okay.
I guess, um, Morrowind's got this.
Uh, then I am going to finish coming around for cover, because I think Marwyn is done fighting for the moment.
Then it's what, Sabriel?
I can still see you over the walls, though, since we're tall enough.
Yes.
I'm going to bonus action Healing Word.
The words I'm going to say are Marrow Soup.
I'll explain later.
And you just feel warm.
You feel warm and you get, how does this work?
2d4 plus three.
So four, five, six, seven, eight, nine hit points back.
Okay.
I was only down seven.
So I think it's one of those moments where Marwyn like moves against the wall thing and she's pretty badly bruised and injured.
And all of a sudden it's realizing, oh, I'm not hurt at all.
You should feel warm in your stomach and it just flows outward.
Um, and then I'm going to then bonk this goblin with a pot with my quarter chef.
Oh, I forgot to describe my kill, oh well.
I gotta get better about that.
Um, but it's only a 12 to hit, so I probably don't, I don't know, they're easy.
You say you're only 12 to hit?
Yeah.
Yeah, you just miss.
Yep, that's fine.
Okay.
And I believe it's their turn.
Yep, but one goblin who remains.
He doesn't know that.
He does not know that.
Can't see over the wall.
He realizes the pot's not the right option.
He drops it and goes for your ankles with his teeth, which does make him prone.
He does have that.
So I'm going to roll to for him to bite you.
There's so much robe there.
He just can't get it tangled up in a robe.
You, you give him a look like, I don't know what you're going to try to do here, but it's not working.
And then he looks at you up at you and realizing the position he puts in.
And then, and you don't speak Orkish.
He, uh, he says something Orkish.
Realizing you don't speak it, and then in broken human, he says, I'm a good pet, pet, pet, I'm a pet.
He just backs off and smiles.
He smiles so awkwardly with all of his sharp little teeth.
Pet, good pet.
Okay, um at a 21 What what is my what's my insight into like obviously this is a survival tactic.
I understand that but like What do I think about this particular Goblins goblins intentions?
Oh He doesn't want to die He's saying
I'm a pet, not because he needs it literally, but because he doesn't know how to surrender.
And so he's trying to tell you.
So he's surrendering.
I'm as harmless as a pet.
I'm your pet.
Basically, he's surrendering.
That is how he's surrendering.
And it's almost kind of adorable, except for his green teeth and pointy teeth.
That's fine.
Is she petting?
Yes.
Yes.
Good pet.
Good pet.
Um... Has Basgar heard this?
Because currently, as of my turn, my turn is currently being spent running at full tilt as a goblin with an axe.
Sure!
Wolfley, do you stop or do you like kill him?
Do I know he's surrendered?
That's the question, basically.
It depends on what you see, because I reach out and pet his head.
He pet his head, I reach out and pet his head.
I think at that, uh, Bazgar probably leaps the wall there, and then stops seeing you patting him on the head, and he's like... You know what, I want to have you all, uh, what are you all going to do to interpret
interactions.
It's a role for that insight insight insight.
Jeff basket wisdom.
It's not very high.
Do I give Jeff a disadvantage for being in the moment?
Hmm.
That's your call.
Yeah.
You know, I think I won't make you disadvantage or just be an easy jack 10.
That'd be nice.
I got an 11.
All right.
The player can choose if he understood what's going on.
I think the thing is, if there hadn't been a physical action, the patting on the head, that's what tells Bascar to stop.
I think anything short of that, like the conversation, he didn't catch.
I think he was jumping the wall to kill this goblin, and he sees literally Sabriel's hand on the goblin's head, and he's not going to swing at a goblin.
His friend is touching like that.
Okay.
So that's what causes him to pull up short and stop long enough for the fight to end, I guess.
Okay, yeah, the fight's over.
He looks at your axe over his head, and he gives you the most weakest smile you've seen.
I will have used adrenaline rush to get there, because I, full tilted, was going to kill the scoundrel.
And I think Baz is going to grunt in Orcish, of course, run.
Do not come back.
I never want to see you again.
Goblin runs.
Trips a few times.
Do not think he is coming back.
Is everybody all right?
Is anybody injured?
Some mild slashing, it's not a big deal.
I thought I was, but I think I'm doing okay.
The solution to injury is to get angry.
The adrenaline, the rush of energy really helps you shake it off.
Pain is just weakness leaving the body.
Tell that to these goblins.
They do not feel pain anymore.
Their weakness is over.
Negotiations failed.
Negotiations failed, but the mission was a success.
We should probably bring proof back to the farmer.
Yeah, I think so.
Yes, that's fair.
He's going to
Go up to one of the corpses, take his axe, and just take the head off.
Proof.
Nothing ears typically, Spice?
Yes, but they might not be dead if they're missing their ears.
This one is definitely dead.
Were there any sheep left alive in the goblin area?
Any sheep?
No, they ate them.
You find the bones and the remains, but...
I actually don't have any magic that would use that right now.
And I can't preserve it long enough, I think, for me to learn such a spell.
It's meant to unfortunately pass on this one.
This is unfortunate.
Yes, actually this would be incredibly useful for higher, for more powerful divination spells, but I don't know anything of the sort.
Well, if they weren't all chewed on by goblins and kind of rotten, I'd say we could make stuffed...
I do not know your word for them, but... Haggis?
Yes.
Yes, I think... Next time at the sheep entrance.
Well, let's just go to explain to the farmer that the goblins declined the offer and are no longer going to take the sheep.
Okay, yeah.
And you get back and he pays you all 70 gold split.
So you should get 70 gold.
And he does not have, excuse me, there were some sheep alive.
Did you return them back to him?
Yes.
He gives you two wheels of sharp cheese and invites you to the next harvest festival.
You're doing the party inventory?
We just gained cheese!
We just gained cheese!
Two wheels.
You said sharp cheese?
Yep.
Ooh, it has a bite.
Like me.
I like it.
Alright, I don't know about you all.
I think I'm ready to go back to the tavern.
It's been a...
We've spent many hours running around the outskirts of the city.
We were largely... Well, we were successful in the jobs.
Yes, it was maybe not as clean as it would have been nice, but it was resolved acceptably.
We made some money.
Yes.
Enough for...
Enough for Expedition.
Some basic yes.
And to replace my hand axes.
Yes.
They probably won't be as good as the ones I had, unfortunately.
That is not translated right.
They will not be as durable as the hand axes I had.
You want that goblin sword?
Hell no.
That is a piece of shit.
Well, I tried.
Alright, so I thought I'd let the goblin bite you.
I was gonna have you out.
I did nothing to not let the goblins bite me.
I mean like DM, evil DMs that had not bitten me.
Oh, they get the seawoons.
Yeah, I was gonna have you go poison because if they do go against the DC, but nope.
Sabriel will be paying attention to like the various things you guys order for dinner as well.
Or songs you happen to like, if there's music at the tavern, things like that because
The healing word idea I had was like, uh, it basically Sabriel is just invoking something particular to that person's interest.
Like they like it and that's going to make them feel better.
So like for, for Bazgar, it would have been like, you know, party stew or something.
Um, probably it's something I don't know.
Axis.
Um,
As far as dinner, I think Basghar, this time, instead of just ordering stew and being disappointed with it, I think he's going to try and figure out, like, get a recommendation, get something that the tavern's actually good at and that is local.
He's trying new things.
Okay.
Because they don't do stew the way he likes stew, so that he should instead do something the way they do it that he's not looking for something specific out of.
If you want something different, you don't have to go talk to...
What's his name?
Oh yeah, Thorgrim.
Thorgrim.
Thorgrim?
Yes, I will talk to Thorgrim.
Most do.
No, I actually was thinking to ask for a recommendation.
What the tavern, what you're in is good at.
What the best meal is.
You know, I told you you don't care about that.
I'm not looking for blood.
I'm looking for local cuisine.
Local cuisine.
Like what the humans like here.
Is that what you serve?
Yeah, of course.
We are humans.
We serve with them.
Then yes, whatever the humans eat.
All right.
We'll get you some, um, it's going to be, uh, something cheap, cheap good.
Sure.
Yes.
We'll get you some lamb chops and native sauce here.
That sounds excellent.
And if you like fish?
I have had many fish before, but I suspect that they're very different fish.
I would like to try your fish, your local fish.
I'll get you the fish instead.
Fresh caught from the ocean this morning.
Excellent.
I'll have the lamb.
Is it lamb?
Sheep?
What did you call it?
There's lamb sheep, not the same.
Lamb is baby sheep.
Full grown sheep is mutton.
Oh.
I didn't know that.
Makes you think twice about eating lamb, huh?
Yeah, it does.
I feel terrible.
I love the lamb chops.
Lamb chops on baby lambs?
Never again.
I feel terrible.
I'm going to join Bazgar with the fish.
Yes, of course.
Of course you got mutton.
I hope you are.
And can I get some more of the, like the bread from earlier?
Of course, of course.
He goes and gets you those things.
Something to note, you've all met dwarves from, you at least have some idea about dwarves from Garhammer.
He is not a traditional Garhammer dwarf.
So you're not, you've seen them.
Some of the things are a little different from him.
Like for example, he doesn't haggle you.
Yeah, I could do just a little bit.
But he might be just a little tiny, nice and skillful.
But like, you know, he's a dwarf.
He's still a dwarf.
Yeah, I think that was good.
I was happy to speak for.
And yeah.
Fool fish.
All right.
And I'll do the muddin.
This was a good day.
I can bring it back out of the table if you all want to go grab one.
Sounds good.
No, no, I'm bringing it to the table.
The dwarf looks almost insulted.
I like if you went to that state where you expect people to serve you gas.
He's like, that's my job.
I'll be right with you guys.
Yeah, we're going to have to.
If you move away for a minute.
Yeah.
And look towards him and say, I actually want to talk to you about something else.
Oh, how can I help you?
Well, I couldn't help but notice the emblem on your lovely shield back there.
You're from Garhammer, yes?
Long time ago, yes.
Do you have any cousins or any connections still to?
Whoa, you're in sight.
Hard.
Eight.
No.
Oh, that's a shame.
Poor guy, he's like banished or something.
I was hoping you could have helped me out with something, but I guess not.
I'm sorry I can't help you.
Well, I look forward to the mutton, was it?
Okay.
Alright, I will go join them at the table.
So, we were very successful today.
We have demonstrated that we can work
Would say as a team we were kind of all over the place and doing our own strategies, but it worked so Maybe going forward will work on the teamwork aspect a little bit But this is this is a proof of concept.
I think is what you call it and it is working um Perhaps if we are going to continue this and do an expedition we should um
Get to know each other a little bit better.
Share some things about yourself that are interesting or not like things you don't want to share.
I don't know why you don't want to have your name famous.
You don't have to tell me.
But if you're interested in telling, we will be happy to hear.
I will not require anything like
secret spilling, just whatever you're willing to talk about that is comfortable.
Well, here's one for starters.
Something I've never said directly to him, but my father was fisherman, and I do not like fish.
I've had a lot over time, but I'm actually very excited to try something else.
All right, that is not what I expected, but it is an interesting tidbit.
I like that.
I have introduced myself.
I am Bazgarsanapatrak.
That's a Dakmanak.
I am from a swamp.
It is a cold and dark place, and it is the most beautiful country you will ever be in.
I am not entirely being serious on that.
It is my home, and it is strange to be away, because this is my first time really leaving the Thrakdok.
The route I took through the pass, it was... By far, this is the farthest I've been from home, and I have...
Some of me can't wait to go back, but some of me is kind of still loving the new...
This is the furthest I've been from home as well.
I would like to go to every corner of the world.
That is a very good call.
This is also the furthest I've ever been from home and I don't plan on this being my last stop either.
want to take some time with the library and the ruins here.
I've got a few questions I need to ask, but then I do plan on moving on.
You both jumped at the opportunity to look at these ruins with me through this expedition.
Can I ask what your motivations are?
Mine are simple.
I am looking for tools, weapons, magics, anything that can make me greater, stronger, more well-known.
I am
This seems immodest of me, but I am looking to become the warlord.
The warlord of your... Of the Rakvok.
Of your clan.
Of the many tribes, all of them.
So there's one warlord for all of the Rakvok.
Yes.
I am so far away from this goal, it is not funny.
But you have to start somewhere.
You have to work your way up to greatness.
And if I can succeed at this task, you know, that would be pretty great.
And I could do some big things.
What do you have to do in order to become the Warlord?
Oh, you...
So, I do not really understand how your communities work.
In my community, the spirit talkers, our shamans, our leaders will
commune and discuss and vote on a warlord to take command of the tribes in times of war.
And the shamans themselves are, of course, the shamans are chosen by their spirits, but the positions of leadership are voted on.
They are chosen by the people.
The shamans then guide the selection of the warlord and we
follow the warlord in battle, but this whole, like, king thing is not how we do things.
I do not entirely...
Proving the strongest is the leader?
The warlord is...
Most competent.
It is complicated, because the warlord is ideally the best chosen to do what we need done at the time, in this case, win the war.
But there's more than just skill at arms and tactics and stuff.
You also have to be...
Prosperity for your people.
Yes, you have to...
There's a spiritual component.
The spirits and the ancestors, they make part of the decision for us.
And then the other part is those qualities of a powerful warrior.
It is a complicated process.
It is difficult to obtain.
Of course.
The odds of me succeeding are not very high, but I am confident in myself.
I know I have a long way to go, a lot of growing to do, but I am young, I have time, and I will make it work.
It's a good goal.
Yes, it is unfortunately very needed.
We are not doing very well right now.
With the Imperium?
Yes, the war has been too long.
Too long.
And our tactics are not working.
The solution has not been found.
We cannot simply win, but the way we have been going.
And none of the other peoples have stepped in to help, so my intent
is to kind of learn about these other cultures, your culture, your culture, the Ardenhaven people.
Learn these cultures.
Learn why they are not helping us.
And then try to maybe bridge that gap.
Not like we did with the goblets.
Maybe a little better than that.
Baskar, how come there are
How come you haven't, your people haven't sent any serious people to ask for help?
We have.
Everywhere?
Well, I don't know.
I am not an expert on those.
I am not on the Faria Council, so I do not know.
But we have asked for help outside, and nobody really seems to know what's going on here.
And also, it is incredibly difficult to get past the Imperium.
There's only the one pass, and it goes to Garhammar, and they are not friendly neighbors.
I know a guy who was enslaved by them.
It is very unpleasant.
It is not easy to get out here.
Most of my greatest adventures to date have been getting here.
It is... Seeking your people out is dangerous and difficult, and it is made that way by the Imperium.
It is very deliberate.
And unfortunately we are not great shipbuilders.
We do not have a way around their blockade, their fortress walls.
So we are stuck and we are... We are trapped.
It is not easy to discuss because it has been very hard for many generations.
I'm also hoping to gain, I'd rather call it knowledge than power from the ruins.
There are things I might learn that could help me to grow.
You've seen a little of my magic today.
I'll say it's something that runs in my family.
And I know my sister first came here.
when she started her journey, and I'm hoping I can learn as much as she did.
Sibling that I have all right.
This I understand.
This is, yes.
But it might be, Bhaskar, if I can learn more, if I can grow stronger, maybe I can help you in your goals.
I am,
Honored by what you were saying.
So maybe we can become stronger together.
I would like this very much.
York doesn't have to be this heavy.
I'd like to help you as well, Baskar.
Thank you.
Okay.
The plot begins.
So I think our plan is we're going to rest here tonight.
And in the morning, let's see about some spiders.
Yes.
Couple things for you, Sabriel.
Since you're trying to pay attention to things we like or don't like.
Um, Marwin already talked about, she's not actually a big fan of fish or seafood.
The money she's like so, so on, but she does, um, the bread with the spreads and everything she gravitates towards.
She seems to use quite a bit of honey and jam and stuff like that gravitating towards sweet things.
Um, the other thing that might happen if there's, um, are there required to play her jail?
Yeah.
Um,
Like, let's say like a musician comes in and plays like a lute or something like that or a violin or some kind of string instrument.
She like perks up and acts like the way she reacts to it, you don't think she's ever heard such a thing before.
It's just kind of a reaction and sort of like a listening with fascination when it happens, sort of like captivated by the sound.
I think in Baz's case, I have a question actually.
For Ardenhaven, and especially this city, do they do spicy food?
Do they have hot peppers or anything like that?
Yes, of course.
Okay.
That is one of the big things Baz gravitates towards.
Spicy food.
He likes seafood, though the fish he has here is very different from the fish he's used to, basically.
There's a lot of like catfish and stuff in swamps, not a lot of like trout or sea bass for obvious reasons.
So he's not used to this fish, he likes it.
It's interesting, it's different.
But I think the thing that he really gravitates towards are the little bean pastries, because they remind him of something he actually has back home, even if the bread is very different.
That might be something we kind of order another round for them for the evening.
because that kind of fulfills both criteria.
Um, kind of like as the evening would go down and like people have gotten over that initial flush of sharing.
I mean, everyone knows Sabriel tend to like they didn't offer very much, but observed a lot.
Um, but like kind of all before we retreat to rooms to take the rest.
They will explain in kind of a careful phrasing.
They are from, is it Arthelion?
How do we pronounce that girl?
Arthelion?
Yes.
Arthelion.
Hold on.
Which one?
My... What?
Yeah, my region.
Uh, I have to look at my, uh, how far to the world.
Um, it, it... Oh, I don't have my synthetic... Arathelion.
Arathelion.
Yeah, Arathelion.
It is a place of elves.
And... Those that venture out
do so not with a mission, but with a purpose.
So I have no such objective, so to speak.
I am a traveler, a healer.
Are you sitting in the bar?
Down below?
That's the interesting question when it comes to you sharing your thing, Nicole.
Is that something you would wait till, like, do that downstairs, or would you wait till we had rooms or something?
Well, we're not sharing a room, so it would be at the table that we were.
Yeah, that'd be fine.
You'd be quiet.
That wasn't my angle.
I was just curious if you were there.
No, the only thing's a deeper plot with me.
Uh-huh.
I mean, yes.
I think we stay at the, like, in the bar area till, like, very late.
But like, yeah, if we wanted to be at the bar, we could have moved around.
I'm not being secretive.
I'm being kind of more like subdued.
Okay, yeah.
See, I make the characters beforehand because this Joe does want to kill you.
Joe who made this was really thoughtful.
With this Joe's like...
This is what I got me to work with?
Okay.
No, if you had, if like the word Erythelion triggers a reaction from somebody.
No.
Most commoners don't even know that's a place.
Yeah, and then you guys may not even know, I don't know if you do.
I think.
Bazgar.
Actually, Bazgar might.
Again, I have a lot of history.
Depends on what educated you are.
Yeah.
I actually think Bazgar might.
You know what?
Just the name, the place.
Just give me a role for it.
It is dead easy, just five.
Oh, then I almost can't fail, and I definitely didn't.
Yeah, there's recognition.
Yeah, because it's- Yeah, they understand, like, I'm from within far to the West.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, because basically how I figured that out, about 25% of the population doesn't know.
Oh, that's fair.
A lot of people know, but like, yeah, the people who are the least educated and stuff.
Yeah.
So, what is your purpose, Sabriel?
Um.
Injourning it?
You said you don't have a mission, you don't have a purpose.
You said you don't have a mission, you don't have a purpose.
You said you don't have a mission, you don't have a purpose.
You said you don't have a mission, you don't have a purpose.
You said you don't have a mission, you don't have a purpose.
You said you don't have a mission, you don't have a purpose.
You said you don't have a mission, you don't have a purpose.
You said you don't have a mission, you don't have a purpose.
You said you don't have a mission, you don't have a purpose.
You said you don't have a mission, you don't have a purpose.
You said you don't have a mission, you don't have a purpose.
You said you don't have a mission, you don't have a purpose.
You said you don't have a mission, you don't have a purpose.
You said you don't have a mission, you don
clearly marked and such?
Oh yeah.
You can tell.
They just wear, like everyone else who wears, like, direct, like, color or whatever, even the civilians of Colnium, look like they're wearing uniforms.
You know they're not military because they don't have the, the, the gala, if that's the right word.
Um, but you can see that they have their plainly
straight gray clothing and the black belts.
They look, um, it's a bit looser than the, than the, um, fighter type, but you can, you can just, you can, you can always spot one of them.
The other part about it is when, how they conduct themselves, it's very organized.
Like they don't, they walk on it and step, they walk more together.
They don't,
They don't look like they're independent.
Like they don't act independently.
So like they walk in, they all walk to the bar.
They order what they're gonna order.
They all order the same damn thing.
They all take a seat opposite side.
And they keep taking theirs at you.
Yeah, it's kind of returned.
Like as soon as they come in, Baz's mood drops.
He's visibly like,
Not gonna start a fight, not gonna draw a weapon or anything crazy, but the night just went from up and fun to not so great.
Why don't we turn in?
Yes, perhaps that is a good idea.
For all we have an early start tomorrow.
We have spiders to slay and money to spend.
You do have to walk past them to go upstairs to your room.
As he passes, Baz does spit on the floor.
In their direction.
One of them is going to try to trip you with a perception to see that that's happening.
Or it could be acrobatics.
It depends on what you want.
If it's acrobatics, that means you didn't see it and you did trip and you saved.
Or if it's perception, that means you saw it before tripping.
I am way better at acrobatics than I am at perception.
Um, but I think, uh... You know what?
I'm gonna roll perception.
Okay.
Because I know where this is going.
Hold on, I gotta figure out what I did for 48.
You got your thing.
If you roll first, I'm the evil DM.
I'll be like, oh, oh, you got a 12, that is hard.
Um, yeah, we're gonna, we're gonna, um, you know what, here's the thing.
You expected it coming,
Let's just make an easy ten.
Okay.
Nine.
Really?
I am minus one.
I am not perceptive.
Yeah, you trip and the whole group laughs at you.
I'm gonna pick myself up.
I am not going for a weapon or anything crazy.
But I've learned the rules of this tavern.
I'm going to loom over the guy who tripped me, grab him by the front of the shirt,
point to the middle of the tavern, come with me.
He, um, yeah, you know what?
He doesn't think anything of you.
He pushes you off, and he comes to the center, and uh, yeah, you walk to the center.
Yeah, I'm gonna be the tar out of this guy.
Yeah, he's gonna cheat with his friends, I know, but Bazzar doesn't.
As soon as you turn your back from him, he punches you in the back of the head.
Okay.
And you roll.
It'd be a surprise attack, which I think is an advantage.
Um, it can be, yeah.
Yeah.
So, double eight.
Um, I don't think a ten hits you.
Uh, no, not at the moment.
No, actually, even if I wasn't armored, it would.
I think it hits me.
and Bazgar just slowly turns around and it's like, you did zero damage.
Did it really?
Uh, cause, like, he didn't hit me hard enough to hurt me apparently.
Oh, okay, gotcha.
So you had enough AC and that's the wall.
Yeah.
Okay, so he throws his punch, um, you want to go to the intimidation?
No, I want to throw him into the center of the room.
You just body him onto the ground.
All right, well, I looked at the grapple rules.
I think that's a grapple, right?
Sure.
And so that's according to what we came up with.
Strength acrobatics contested to the target strength athletics.
So you?
No, that is incorrect.
Is that the 2014 rule?
That is the old ones, yeah.
So the rule, the source I'm pulling from doesn't have the 2024.
Okay.
So you can't look it up.
Gotcha.
Okay.
Yeah, that's the old-style rules.
So in this case, he would make a saving throw against my DC, which is strength-based in my case.
His can be either dex or strength, whatever he's better at.
So you have to set the DC.
Yes, the DC is a 13.
We use my strength and stuff to determine that.
So you roll a 5.
Yeah, so I am going to basically pick him up and bodily throw him onto the ground, knock him prone.
Okay.
And, um, like, just loom over him.
If he wants to get up and continue this fight, I am happy to push this.
Did you go out of termination, or are you fighting?
Um... No, I want to fight him.
Yeah.
He gets, uh... You see the elokerions are looking over the dwarf, like, aren't you gonna do something?
And the dwarf just looks, like, entertained.
This is the rule of the tavern, boys.
If that guy gets up, he brushes himself off.
He's like, he's like getting himself pumped and goes in for a punch.
Right into the chest.
No effect.
I'm gonna hit him back.
That is a 16.
Okay.
Would you like to throw him into...
No, I want to just punch him.
Punch him?
I want to punch him as hard as I can.
You knock him out.
The another one of the Corians, and two of the Corians leap out and go at you.
Okay, I was fine with that, but if they want to push this... That seems unfair.
Nah, I got this.
It's a 16 and a 15.
Both hit.
Okay.
And I think it's a punch, which is what I wanted to see.
Yeah, a punch is one plus your strength.
There's not even a dice roll.
Unless you have something that gives you unarmed combat, they're really bad.
A six between the two?
Yeah.
Okay.
Then I will lose the temp, and I will be bloodied.
So you're getting... Yeah, this is starting to hit.
This is starting to hit.
So how do you deal with these two?
I am going to second wind.
As like, he starts hitting his stride, this is getting fun.
I am not bloodied anymore, I'm back up to 10 hit points.
Oh.
You're still bloodied, in character.
I'm not the status-bloodied weirdo.
But now, you're angry.
Yeah, I'm angry.
Honestly, Baz is starting to have a good time.
This is good times.
I am going to punch, that is an 11 to hit.
Yeah, you hit.
They have no armor, they're just wearing clothes.
They're just traitors, Baz.
Yeah, Baz does four damage with his punch.
He's out.
You knock him out.
I'm not the next guy.
Well, even if he's not knocked out, he's not willing to fight.
Yeah, he's out of the fight.
Yeah, you hit him hard enough to realize like, yeah, he needs to pick himself off the ground.
So the other guy, he's just
in the moment yeah not thinking about this six nope did just pings off your leather or is he missing or you're dodging i'm not dodging okay yeah so he's just it's not even touching you for the briefest moment i thought about trying to back him and then so if he had hit me i was like a wind again i'd probably been full life oh my god
Um, that is a 16 to hit.
That's his one ability at this level.
He's hard to put down for level 1 character.
Get yourself a plot point.
And then when they're all down, I know they're probably not unconscious, they're like... Yeah, they're picking themselves up.
Yeah, they're like beat up.
And then Vaz is going to say, there, I think we understand each other now.
And then he's going to go up to his room.
They just give you that luck.
The, um...
Thorum gives him a free glass of beer.
That is how he keeps the peace.
And the thing about it is you hear him basically like, free beer or you're out.
And the reason why you don't even know, but basically by taking the beer, that's his way of... That's the peace accord.
That's a contractual...
If you take this beer, you don't complain about it outside of the bar.
If you don't take this beer, we're gonna have more problems because...
The beer is, it ends here.
Yeah, it ends here, yeah.
It ends here, and if it doesn't end here, you end here, get out.
Yeah, exactly.
Do they accept?
Um... Because Marwan, I think, would wait to kind of see if we're gonna have further problems with Imperium here.
Usually, a long hesitation from them.
And you can see that, you don't even even need well, they...
If they could kill the orc, they would kill him, but they can't.
They're also citizens.
They take the bear.
It is free bear.
All right.
Then I will head up to my room.
How much is it for a room here for a night?
I'm not going to monitor that.
How we're going to monitor those little things is more like
If you go say, Hey, I'm going to travel to a thing, a third, our thing, our thing, our thing, our failure.
We can also, they have lifestyle expenses, so we can always deduct it on our own if you want.
So what I'm going to do is it's going to be like four.
Like if you wanted to go there, there'll be a price for that traveling.
If you want to go die.
So it encompasses the yeah.
Okay.
And so then it's like, if you don't have the money to go do that, then either you need to make money or you're going to have to like roll and forage and survival and there will be a counters.
Okay.
So it's more use our money for actual, like, um, for either accessing new areas or
getting new stuff for our characters.
Or rely on Vazgar to keep us alive in the wild.
Do not pick that option.
As a, like, setting this baseline here, because I'm a ladren, I will always be the last person to retreat to bed in the first person awake time.
You only meditate, right?
I only meditate for four hours.
Yeah, it's not even a full night.
It's not a full night.
The other time, the only reason I would have a room is because I would then use the rest of that time to
perform my religious rituals.
Do you guys do anything?
I think we go to bed.
Um, Evangeline is the name of the, that's the species name, right?
This is subspecies of Elph.
Oh, subspecies of Elph.
Okay.
Gotcha.
I, uh, Marvin would take a little bit of time that night, kind of once she's in her room where, um,
It might seem like an odd practice now that you guys are there, but she'd actually take out the skeleton rib and the bits of grass that she took earlier, kind of lay them out and almost meditate over them a bit, sort of just close yourself off for a bit, kind of calm yourself down from the day's events, sort of ponder, listen, and then quietly put them away, no breakthroughs for the day, and then go to bed.
Bazgar ended the day on a high note.
So he's gonna sleep deeply and sleep happily.
So, lower your perception.
It's just you.
Oh, I guess I should say, at a course of habit while on a run, Marwin would put an alarm on her door, just in case.
17.
17.
You see the San Ficondrian traders
drunk on the second floor looking for trouble.
They open one door, they look, they close it, and you get the, you know what they're looking for.
Um, do I think Thorgrim is still up?
No, he's asleep.
The barkeep?
Oh, barkeep.
Yeah, he's up.
Sorry, I wouldn't alarm your door.
He's a dwarf.
He's up.
We're not going to let him know that some of his guests seem to be a bit restless.
Well, how are you going to get to him?
Because you'd have to go past these guys.
I'll walk past them.
Just casually walk out and start... Well, I mean...
I don't think you can roll a cool in this game.
What is equivalent for cool?
Because you have to basically be cool about the situation for them to not realize you're... ...telling on them.
You teach your... Um...
Okay, then, okay.
I mean, you can roll, but I think it's crazy.
There's deception in the closet.
Deception, yeah.
Yeah, because you're hiding your intent.
Let me think it through for a second.
They're out in, like, my hallway.
There's exit in, there's one hall, there's a step going up, one hallway, they're coming down.
You can, you basically hear them being just a little noisy because you're not sleeping.
Yeah, I...
And you want to beat up an orc?
I want to beat up an orc.
They're certainly welcome to try.
I know, right?
I'm going to, and nobody else is awake.
Yeah, they're asleep, you know.
I'm going to take my hat off and set it down.
Okay.
And then walk out into the hallway.
So, you're gonna, you're gonna, you're gonna just, like, battle gas them.
Uh, I guess that's a persuasion?
Yeah, a little persuasion.
Um... That would be two hum to myself.
That'd be five, near five.
Um, okay, uh... 23.
You basically step out and they are just...
Smatcher was the right word?
Like, they just stop what they're doing.
And you're able to walk past them without a problem.
Cause they're kind of like just memorized by just your, your presence.
And those might just distract them from whatever their original tent was.
Yeah.
They kind of sort of forgot what they're doing.
Yeah.
You have no problem.
You go get the dwarf.
Yeah.
I then go down and to the bar keep and I let Fordroom know that a few of his guests seem to be a bit
Restless tonight.
Gorgom goes up and helps them to their bed.
He's very pragmatic in his approach.
Um, basically not disrupting other guests and they do listen.
So yes, you avoid the situation.
Yay.
Good job.
Talking to people.
We're not talking.
Huh?
We're just not talking at all.
Oh yeah.
Not talking.
Yeah.
It just, sometimes you just,
You just got the presence, man.
You just have such a pragmatic approach.
This dissident, I thought.
Like, this is really the worst problem.
Yeah, I'm just gonna walk past them.
I like your approach.
But I'm learning his charisma is a super skill in jazz game.
I mean, these things work in real life.
Like, when you... Well, I was thinking about it realistically.
It's not like I am going to individually confront three drunk people and I don't want to break up your guys' long rest.
So, practically speaking, yeah, this guy doesn't want these things to hurt or displace, so...
But I wanna break up the long sleep.
I know you do.
I just... You're foiling all my plans!
You love it.
I do.
Alright, yeah.
Alright, so...
Um, are we going to do the spider and then cook, or do we want to try to cook now?
It's seven, I think we should get pizza and then do spiders and we'll wrap up the day with like the shopping and prep and we'll play.
And then play more.
And the break would be good anyway right now.
Yeah, yeah.
Let's food break.
Pizza.
Pizza.
How's your game going?
It's going well.
It's great.
I could play this all day.
I like that you've gotten nuances to your encounters.
It's not as simple as like, ah, there's a goblin, so let's get into a fight.
Like, there's a story behind it, is the nice thing, to why there's the encounter.
So you're kind of training us to dig a little bit deeper in each situation and look for other avenues and opportunities.
And the solution wasn't you have to kill them.
It was very much that, like, Bazgar could have succeeded there.
If I hadn't rolled crap, we could have non-combat solved the problem.
I like that.
Do you like that we're taking these venues?
Yeah, of course.
That is, I think, for the three of us, something we're very...
I want you three to defeat me.
But that doesn't necessarily mean combat.
Yes, and cleverly.
I like your clever solutions.
Combat is the follow-back.
It's kind of the way it feels right now, which is good.
I will say I did like using the map
when we dig it into an encounter.
That made it easier for me to wizard when it came down to it.
Example, doing my cone effect and stuff.
When the shit hit the fan.
Prior to that, didn't need it.
You know, all theater of the mind was good.
Oh, because of that combat design.
It's just, when it devolves to combat, having a map is very useful.
But if the combat doesn't call for it because it's linear.
Yeah, because it's not, it also helps if it's like the bar fight where it's just, we're standing there wailing on each other.
We don't need a map for that.
Yeah.
But with spells, having actual grid helps the girls.
Oh, because you might have decided with the zombies to AOE them up front.
Now, the narrative was they were not grouped up.
Yeah.
But example, like with the zombie situation.
I don't think the zombies was bad.
I think that was fine.
But like for the goblins, we definitely would have needed a map.
That was helpful there.
So there's going to be time that this is beneficial.
The thing I also liked about using the map here is it helped tell the story.
Like when we had Bazgar leave here, if it weren't for the whole petting situation, Bazgar would have run over and obliterated this guy.
And it would have been hilarious.
And I don't think we would have necessarily had that whole dynamic of understanding the distance, how far away he was, the barriers.
There was no way I was going to do this fight without a fight map.
I needed a map for this one.
Even if I didn't have this, I'd be pulling out something, a white board or something.
So I thought that was good.
So I'm liking the balance between the two.
Okay, yeah, I will be keep flipping between the two.
The other mind's going to be really when the map's not going to matter.
Basically, either everyone's in a small quarter and AOE hits everybody and everyone's in range.
I don't need a map for that.
Like, for example, you walk in a closed room and you see three prisoners, right, or three guards.
It's a single room.
Right.
Yeah.
You don't need this map right here.
Yeah.
You're either in the room or you're not in the room or even then like you're probably, it's really hard to show that because you're probably like, Oh, it's like your stuff like this.
But like narratively, this doesn't really make sense in that narration.
Right.
Exactly.
So I think using both will help.
Um, the other thing I liked you did in terms of like how the factions are interacting with each other.
We have NPCs with other stories that either are tying in one way or the other, like we have a Garhammer dwarf who's probably cut off from his clan for XYZ reasons.
We don't know what that is now that there's a story there.
There's clearly something behind why he's here and not interested in talking about it, right?
Or I love the fact that we got your whole story with the Imperium and then immediately had an appearance encounter.
No, that's a great context though, Jeff.
That was a good call on your part.
And then the fact that you got into the fight and how it got instigated, it all felt very natural.
And I know I'm holding a lot of cards close to my chest now.
That's not intentional.
I just haven't found the right story beats to reveal them yet.
I'm in the same boat because it's not like, it would be completely wrong.
You guys know high level.
I'm from Elderholt.
It would be completely wrong and stupid of my character in the middle of a bar to be like, yeah, I'm from Elderholt and blah, blah, blah.
That's not what I should do.
So one of the things I'm going to do is every session, I'm going to take note of who had the most narrative time or the most, like, narrative time focused on their world.
Yeah.
And then basically keep tally of that so that I can divide it.
So that, like, OK, maybe this, maybe you get the most narration.
you know, then I'm like, okay, it's time to get Christine some hooks.
We'll get Nicole some hooks.
So even if you don't find those opportunities, I have events planned out for both of you.
I don't have any plan for Jeff because Jeff is
I'm taking the charge in the beginning, so the story is currently, I am putting a group together.
It's about me so far.
If you like trying to plan for a fish to drink and water, like you are in the problem.
Christine's coming in asking the questions like, your story doesn't make sense.
Yes, Christine, I know.
You don't have the whole story.
Yeah, we were talking about this last night.
Um, that it was funny because, you know, there was the talk of like the little bit of balance going on that like, um, you know, Nicole has her pony.
My thing is that I knew things and I couldn't give them any specifics, obviously, but like it was really funny to me that I know
More about what's going on in the main plot, I think.
I am assuming this is main plot.
I'm also trying to play into the setting, given that, like, I don't think people talk about, like, people...
I also don't talk about my place very much.
My people are very secretive and I'm trying to also portray that as part of the narrative.
You don't just talk about home.
It's not what your people do.
There's some complicated things that you can't easily describe.
And that also makes sense, yeah.
Whereas home is very simple, guys.
You can talk freely about it.
You're recognized for where you're from.
They would be too, but like,
There's nothing about me that says I'll be hooked.
Yeah, you're also not an obvious thing.
Like we're walking billboards for where we came from.
I'm not supposed to be either.
Again, you guys read the description.
If I brought it up, the reaction would be different than it is for her or even for you.
Yeah.
So I'm going to be looking for that time to drop the in-character bomb of that.
And I just now doesn't feel at the right time.
Yeah.
I'll be hooked.
I'll be hooked.
Yeah, that's the thing.
It would be bad to just info-dump everything right away.
I still have things held to the chest.
Like, we don't want all the character information all up front, because then the story is 90%.
Like, not the story is told, but like, it's too much.
It was kind of designed in a way so stuff would come out naturally across games.
Yeah.
Pizza.
Pizza.
I have to write a secret note to someone.
I hope it's me.
I like secret notes.
I also really like starting bar fights.
I will say Jeff, you are living your best spider life today.
No, it's so good.
And you are killing it on the accent too.
I love it.
Bazgar is very funny, Jeff.
Bazgar's a great character.
This has been a great D&D session.
I am very happy with all the characters.
I'm very happy with how the encounters are going and how, like, the opportunities for roleplay, that just everything has been very good.
I've been very happy.
And it is fun doing something very different.
Yeah, you're really growing as a player tackling a new, like, archetype?
It's difficult because this is very much not my default.
very different for me.
And so I often have to like kind of pause and think, okay, I am being cautious.
Bazgar is not cautious.
All right, so, yep, I sent my note to one of you.
Something about main plot.
It's a sandbox.
Yeah, I know.
I know it's not like literally a main plot.
So it's not that.
It could be the main plot and I intend to make it the main plot.
And because it's starting location, yes, absolutely.
You absolutely can do that.
It really has to do with
The starting location means that it is going to be huge.
You could always travel to another city or another location.
Well, really, you could go to another continent.
That would be complicated, because I doubt you've planned out other continents to this detail.
Maybe you've got ideas, but I doubt the thing there is detailed.
I feel like we have enough going on here right now.
Yeah, after all, we have to make you a warlord.
That's true.
We do.
Half true.
You're right.
You're right.
They plan way more here than others, but the other continents have stuff.
The other continent has a lot of stuff.
Well, that's cool.
Part of the problem about planning so much on this continent that I don't have to do on the other continent as much is that the history, because you don't know the history.
Yeah, right.
We don't know the history, so it doesn't have to all be written yet.
Yes.
It is good though.
It is good.
I'm just sending you a question to ponder.
Okay.
It doesn't have to be answered in chat.
Um, and when I, when you guys next see Sabriel, I'm going to have a new description.
You're going to change forms?
Okay.
Are you going to be sad winter, Sabriel?
I'm going to be summer.
Oh, okay.
Also good.
I mean, the acycline ordered you out.
Come on.
Yeah, I was gonna say, I don't, is that true?
No.
I don't know enough about Eladrin.
I was like, oh, I didn't know that.
So very active role players by this point.
So you're gonna get a lot of rich character drip and motivation.
That's great.
I will very rarely make it so you can't not like, there will always be options.
Even when there doesn't seem like there aren't, nah.
Right.
Things don't always have to be, but having nuances for it.
So just talking about this thing, there's an adventure book, while I'll be on the wish light, that the entire adventure, 1 to 12 or whatever its level range is, is designed with the intent that if the players want to ant, roll well, and do their clever, the problem solving, that stuff,
They can complete a 12-level campaign with no comments.
I want to design that way because, frankly, it's such an interesting idea.
A game that can be played inherently passively, passively, if one wants to.
I'm going to change in the DMV swap counts just so you understand.
I'm going to change in the swap counts.
OK.
Like a lot of the things you can do in most circumstances just now have an action assigned to them, where in the past the rules weren't very clear on what they took to search a place.
They just said roll a dice basically, just use the search, the perception set, whatever.
Now there's actually a search action.
But the only difference is now there's a, you know it costs an action now.
So it's just, it's codified better, but the rules are pretty much the same.
I can tell me all of them, you have access to these tools.
Instead of me having to remember, you know, I've never used a CLI to tell it exactly the word that you want, where you basically have to say, run this command and the exact spelling.
Then it allows me to just use natural language to describe what I want to do, and then it will run
want or more tools to accomplish my natural aim.
Which is great, because I have a terrible memory.
So I don't have to remember how to type it in.
I can just talk to it, and it can figure out what tools are mine.
Which is great, because my memory sucks.
It's funny, because I actually have a objectively terrible memory.
Except when it comes to stupid things, like specifically the enable.
I don't remember what I did yesterday, but I really can tell you.
You don't have a memory problem.
You have a carrying problem.
No, I actually have.
I have an unusually bad memory for everything.
There is definitely an ADHD component.
But there's definitely a lot of things I know about that.
It's mostly just been long conversations about, I don't remember, there are vast quantities of major events, life events that I should remember, but I just don't.
I get told about things that happened to me that were shatteringly important.
You know, I just don't remember anything from beyond 15 years ago.
Not literally nothing, but there.
And even beyond two years, I don't remember much.
But people will tell me about a DVD campaign.
I remember we played that game, the campaign.
But that's the long term, right?
No, it's definitely the long term memory is my problem.
I'm not great at short term, but the short term memory is definitely the game.
That's definitely the game.
You don't remember if you've been killed.
And so you have to slow down long enough to put it to sleep.
Yeah, I don't know much.
The question is how it all happened.
Is the bipolar thing strictly genetic?
Because nobody in my background is bipolar.
And I don't know what set off the whole crash in the first place.
But there at least... You crashed during college?
I mean, I know what happened there.
Is it full?
It's pretty full.
Is it so full we can't put things in there?
I would say so.
I don't know if you would say so.
Joe, memory loss is up to 40 to 60% of people with bipolar will have memory loss.
No, it's not.
It's not money.
Yeah, I don't know that the crash caused it or anything.
I just know it did.
That's about when things started getting really bad.
I've never had a good memory.
After that point, at some point not long, I don't know when, but at some point around then it started getting objectively not right.
Jammies time.
Jammies time.
No more pants.
No more pants.
For you.
It's okay.
So it's state dependent.
So during mania or hypomania, poor memory formation, not paying attention, basic thoughts, sleep deprivation, hypokinemia, stress, and you may feel later like you've lost memories, but you're not losing memories.
They were just never encoded well because of the poor memory formation.
because of hypomania.
So basically during hypomania, and that's why you're losing large parts of your life, I'm not a doctor just according to this, you're losing large parts of your life because during hypomania, you're not encoding those memories.
And during severe depression, crashes, impaired recall, concentration, walking memories, slow thinking, and memories may feel inactive-estable rather than erased.
Inaccessible rather than erased feels right, because if you remind me of something, a lot of time it'll start to come back, but we'll be having a conversation about stuff, and I'm thinking, I just have nothing, and I have nothing, I have nothing, and then I've specifically told something very specific, and it'll come back.
Why would you want red water?
Some people don't like fuzzy.
Oh yeah, I don't like fuzzy water.
Many things are required of your attention.
Oh, the West is after us to the garbage disposal.
very easily.
It's not easy.
It happens in all the movies and stuff.
It's real.
They can't mess with a car.
You have to really put your, you literally have to bend down.
Like the blades are like this purposefully flat and they have like this point.
It's super dangerous.
I'm going to have to turn it on by accident.
I get something else to accidentally turn it on.
That's why I put my hand down to fix it.
I don't think I'm talking about it.
I'm sorry.
It didn't happen.
It's OK.
It's not severe.
It's OK.
When you said you'd have to unplug it to stick your hand down, it wasn't so much a visual image in my head, as just the concept got really big.
Oh.
And I'm going to have to put you down.
I don't like garbage, so I was almost like freaking out.
That's amazing.
I mean, I like using them in the sense that I like.
I like having them in the house and letting other people use them.
Or me flip on the switch and use the water to push things in and not put my hands anywhere near it.
I don't do it.
Yeah, I don't put, I only do the device questions.
Yeah, I don't want to be eating.
I don't want to have my answers.
I don't dirty a spoon.
Some people, they would push their hands closer to it, and it's fine, because it's way down.
The idea bothers me too much.
Yeah, I get that.
Okay, I need cheese.
I do have a little darkness here.
I don't know how that happened.
Did you not do that to my mom's garbage disposal?
So this guy, I know why it's in this house, because this house was invented.
I think it happened.
Um, I noticed a few things in this house, which is like any...
So I can't prove this.
Yeah.
I think that's how it's supposed to go, is there any proof so that you guys, that thing is a beast.
It's unnecessary.
It's completely unnecessary.
But it's been pretty nice for you to just throw everything down and operate that.
Yeah.
I've seen it chew through the good and the bad things.
I'm gonna have to take this out.
Yeah.
I just keep thinking I'm gonna break it and it just doesn't sink.
If this thing ever goes bad I will buy another one.
This is what I only need to do half, it's my, I don't know what's the word.
Once you make a choice, you have to stick with a nice little environment.
I love it.
I love embracing constraints.
OK. Yeah, because it's like, once you have these inside stuff, I can't really, oh, I want to do something else.
But I just gave you all the, like, the...
So you're actually, you're the one who taught me the joy constraints.
Do you remember back when you ran the Saint Haven game?
It's a helpful thing, yes.
The well and everything, because I remember, it's a gaming story I tell all the time.
You started off with, alright, everybody has to be human, and I threw the biggest spin.
I thought I was playing human, I had no ideas, what are you doing, Joe?
And then I took a walk, and I came up with a character I loved.
I loved that one.
I came back, and I went, alright, here's what I'm going to do.
The constraint helped me to then tell the story.
excited whenever we get to share things.
Yeah.
Even if it might be a while before we get to do something.
Any time we get restrained, it's always with the purpose and through the story.
Where it's like, I can't tell the story without some sort of restraint.
I think with Eberheap and the restraint had to be there because the whole story was something
If you weren't human, it wouldn't make sense to have been in that situation.
If I remember right.
Oh, my first statement.
The whole premise behind it was, humanity and man were without else.
And then they were getting their asses kicked.
The only solution was, we've got to get out of here.
So humans went to another world through the well and everything without magic.
We were the humans who were trying
back into the world, and so we were the outsiders.
Yes.
And so to make you guys feel like... Like the outsiders.
Like the outsiders.
That was a core premise there.
It was necessary, it was good.
It also, like, I'm going to pick on Jeff a little bit, the tip.
Out of the lot of us, I'm the one who actually stuck to one of the restrictions you could put on there.
I am, but I learned how to do that from that campaign.
Because later on, Nicole, the first game she ever ran for me was an Underdark campaign.
And the very first person who went, I'm going to be a draft off.
We're doing Underdark.
I'm going to be a draft.
Let's go far.
And my ask was that they be negative Underdark residents.
They work from the surface.
They're from the Underdark.
And I love that cast of characters.
But also, we had to get a drow, a gnoll, and a teeth like.
Yeah.
So we still, like.
Puts it in a little bit.
Yeah.
I love hitting the denmark there.
It's also why, like, when we were doing the outer hold and discussing back and forth, I could have done something cheeky and done a different class, but I'm going to be a witch.
Let's just go for the lizard.
Let's just do it.
Yeah.
I think when you gave me my document, I hit just about every single thing you called out.
I was like, oh, I did that.
here.
Bye!
So high.
This is day one.
Do you have a DC in mind, gentlemen?
Basically, the rough, how the shamans work.
Their power comes from the spirits, but spirits are in all living things.
Does that mean they command living things, they control people's bodies?
The answer is clearly no.
Why is the answer no?
to access a literal conversation with the ancestors to get deep on how to deal with something.
They can talk to them, big, big, big, big, whatever, and they will directly tell them, this is what you need to do.
So to put it in perspective, this theory of shaman's magic
But it would not be different from asking you to do the thing.
It doesn't force you.
You can't force spirits to do anything.
You certainly shouldn't force spirits to do anything.
So it is a request.
It is a communion, a discussion.
It's not compulsion.
So, Jeff, I think this would be something you would never, I think you've talked about it to some degree.
You don't have a strong concept of death.
You just, you just, oh yeah, I do remember you mentioned that a long time ago.
Yeah, a long time ago.
Yeah, you don't have a, you need some transition.
You go from state to state.
The spirits are in a different state.
will cause any type of suffering.
I can't cross my TV music.
I'll be right back.
27 minutes because I need to go off a second.
I will say it was not a...
During the.
What are you doing man?
insane.
When people are not giving you useful information, you need to find somebody who's good.
I gave you a thousand steps.
You have to set it easy.
No, you're right.
I mean, you could roll with it.
I said it.
No?
All right.
You're right.
Not with my rolling, Jerry.
Have you seen that?
This should be...
You're in the town, it should be very easy, so it's a five, but if you roll above a 15, I'll be generous.
10 plus five is 15.
All right, you meet a friendly elf.
So the interesting thing for you guys about Marwin's approach is basically she will look around the tavern when I see this
potential friendly elves for these things welcoming, I'm gonna come right on over and pull up a chair and like welcome myself to their table, basically.
And it's perfectly normal, normal thing.
Normal behavior, normal social etiquette.
I am generating the elf now.
Okay.
We don't have a lot of tables, so I don't really know what table etiquette is.
Well, here's the thing.
Saburo gets up very early.
Obviously, so I usually probably claim a really nice table like the sunniest window if there's a window in this tavern Wow, it's really been a long time since I've asked the other model Different models take longer, but now I'm committed
Yep, now you're committed.
And I could ask the other model generator one and trace them, but then like... That's mean.
Yeah, and then it would be like, would you, would you go after asking R2-D2 a question, go to CP... CP... C3PO?
C3PO, like, hey, I know you're a talking droid, but I need you to do R2-D2's job.
Yep.
Yep.
Yep.
100%.
You might, because maybe R2 is going to move a little bit faster.
That's it.
I am going to ask a different, a cheaper model.
Different model.
It sounds like it could be a pair of elves in the same park.
It could be.
I don't know why it's taking so long.
It's trying to be...
I know one of the things I want to shop for when we do shopping.
I want to get a bunch of ingredients.
That's true, you're the cook.
You're the cook.
You don't hunt, you're the cook.
They're not the same job.
Knock-based, never.
Everybody should know how to cook.
That's like a basic life skill.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's normal.
Everybody should.
Do you not know how to feed yourself?
I can eat, if that's what you're asking.
We have very interesting travel companions.
I imagine I probably have cooked a meal before.
Is this your character?
No, this is in character.
I'm thinking.
Okay.
We're gonna spend the next like 20 minutes just pondering.
I don't think I've ever cooked before.
I wouldn't say I'm a good cook, but I can cook.
There's a difference.
I've had, I mean, a tray of rations.
Do you know how to gut a fish?
It's not hard.
It's not pleasant, but it's not hard.
The reason I know how to cook as well as I do is because trail rations are quite good.
Not if you just... War rations.
What you get on the front lines.
You tried my trail rations?
Well no, that's why I learned to cook so I could make my own that were actually good.
Do you just get handed trail rations that are good?
Is this how your people work?
I'm going to give you some of my trail rations.
This is like the best bougie thing you've ever had.
I do not know what this is.
Is it like a free bento box, basically?
Yeah.
It comes in like that little bit.
It's like meat, veggies, carb already, somehow preserved.
Yeah, absolutely.
This is not trail rations.
This is a meal.
This is what we get for traveling.
This is travelish food.
If I lived in New Orlando, I would not have wanted to cook.
The elf is tall and spare, with sea-dark hair worn, and a tight braid, and an ink-stained fingertip.
He never quite manages his glove clean.
His eyes are as a pale, strong gray that leads to the cold,
And two, he smiles.
A male elf?
He is a male.
Excuse me.
Have you been around the area for a while?
Myself and my friends are quite new and could use some help getting the lay of the land.
Oh, sure.
What are you looking for?
Excellent.
We're actually interested in trying to set up a expedition into the mountains later on.
We've heard that most people hired dwarfing guides.
Do you know where people go to, to look for guides?
Um, the ancient ones?
Like I said, we don't know a lot right now.
Um, so what are, you know what our options are?
Of course.
I obtained the moon catalog ledger for the library here.
You got very lucky speaking with me.
That's nice.
That's perfect.
I was actually hoping to check out the library later today, too.
I've heard a lot of good things.
I'm so happy to hear that.
Is that somewhere where we'd find that information?
Would that be better?
Or could you give us kind of a quick rundown?
Well, I can help you.
Yes.
What type of moons are you looking for?
Um, what are our options?
I think at least Bazgar is from the other table.
I just kind of like leaned against the chair watching this.
Like I didn't really expect this to work.
I mean, do you, uh, do you go fishing?
You're asking Marwin?
Yeah.
Do you go fishing?
Yeah.
I mean,
Are you asking in a metaphorical sense or real sense?
Real sense.
This is a fishing town.
Yes, I've been fishing before.
When you go fishing, can you pick what fish you pick out?
No, but you might be able to attract different kinds depending on the bait you use or how deep your lure goes.
Kind of like, there's some ways to control it, but not ultimately.
Do you keep a weapon?
Um, I do, but I don't have much cause to use it.
Spell book?
Yes.
Can I see it?
You can, it may not make much sense to you.
I just want to take a look.
Six pages?
No, you're not ready.
Okay.
Marwin will very kind of cautiously take out her, her spell book and will
pass it over.
He takes a look, just puts it back.
There's some small ones at the bottom of the valley I can point you to.
Bottom of the valley?
Yeah.
I would appreciate that.
He gives you the instructions, where to find them, and he tells you what walk can take you there.
Okay.
I think it's pretty obvious how you guys just fell back.
He didn't even read it.
No, like I said, counted pages, not enough.
I assume these are all first levels because... You didn't even do that, you just... Yeah, there's not enough pages filled here.
Yeah.
The other thing, we are aware, again, being new, that we're going to need some supplies for this journey.
I was wondering if you know where we might be able to find... Weaponsmith?
maybe an alchemist, and if you know of anybody who might be selling magical spells or things like that in the area.
You did a thing and found less information.
Yay!
This could be your job going forward.
I'm not useless.
No, you're not useless.
You've never been useless.
I light things on fire?
You do light things on fire.
It's very impressive.
This can be your job going forward.
You are successful at it.
Because I question people?
You can find the information on where we are going next based on what we want to accomplish.
I realize now I missed a golden opportunity to literally hand Joe my spellbog.
Let me show you how he did it.
Hand it to me.
Just look at the weight.
It's okay.
I also missed an opportunity when I killed the goblin.
What I wanted to do in retrospect, I have the trip thing.
I wanted to trip the goblin and then come down on it with the axe, just like knock its legs out from under it and just murder it.
It would have been a fun descriptor.
So you have three kinds of, there are three kinds of people that can help you in the mountain.
You have native dwarves, which
Could actually be any native, they're not as good.
You have oath dwarfs.
Oath hole?
Oath hole dwarfs.
They're harder to find, but the award is much stronger, I would say.
And then you have the other, the garhammer dwarfs, which are just pricier.
In roll terms, if you want an oathbound dwarf, you're going to have to roll to find one.
Because there's no downside to having a dwarf that has a...
Honor driven and not super greedy.
Not super money motivated.
That's what the elf tells you.
If you can help it, you want an oathbound dwarf.
Is that the lead that this elf gives us?
Yeah, he tells you that.
He also tells you the S assignment.
The S. Oath.
Oath hold.
Oath hold.
Dwarves don't say the S. They don't like it.
They think they, they think that, uh, they think of you saying that they're slaves when you say that.
So you want to know S. Right.
Of course.
It's pretty easy to slip up.
They get really upset.
Yes they do.
Um, could you help direct us to where there might be a, a weaponsmith, an alchemist and, um,
and he purveyors of spells in the area.
He helps with all those.
The spells, can he help you with the spells?
Yeah, there should be a spell shop.
There's magic in the world.
So yeah, he shows you to a spell, several different spell shops.
The city is terribly disorganized.
There's no rhyme or reason.
There's no districts.
So like when you start looking at the instructions, every instruction he gives you,
You have to write down.
And you notice Marwyn does.
When it starts getting complicated, she's like, hey, can you go back to the beginning?
And she will make notes in a different book, separate from her spell book, about these locations.
Yeah.
So Jo, that'll probably be the next thing you'll need the LLM to generate while we're doing spider fights and stuff, or the weaponsmith, a spell shop, and an alchemist.
And an oath-hold dwarf now.
Well, you have to go and find one.
Oh, you just gave us a lead for one.
You told us that would be the best kind.
That would be the best kind.
Okay, you didn't give us a specific guy.
Yeah, he probably doesn't know.
A weaponsmith, a what?
A spell shop, so some place that sells spell scrolls, and an alchemist.
He's an alchemist.
A-L-C-H-E-M-I-S-T.
I figure we're probably going to want to look at potential potions of healing.
I have some of those.
What?
Yes.
Oh, wow.
Well, I have one of those, but...
Okay.
Well, we might want to look at that.
You need new hand axes.
Yes.
Or something to throw.
Maybe a gem.
Do you need me to, uh, learn how to make potions, I hear?
I actually do.
Oh, you... Oh, that's right.
If I had the ingredients, I...
But I don't think we're going to... Uh-oh.
Yeah.
Alright so Joey you gotta generate a weapon, weapon shop, a shop that sells spell scrolls.
It's generating alchemists, okay.
And then we're going to go fight some spiders after we quiz the sport.
What's this elf's name?
This elf's name is called Elru there.
Are we fighting spiders indoors or outdoors?
Elrion.
Elrion.
Elrion.
I can't do that.
Oh, Elrion?
It's I-ler-ion.
I-ler-ion.
Elrion.
Elrion.
OK. Well, it's end of the N. This is a thing, Elyrians.
And um, I, I, Christine, don't remember the name of the library, but later on today, uh, if we go to the library, will I see there?
So the concordance library.
Yeah.
And the fourth concordance library.
Yeah.
Depends what time of the day you come.
You'll see me there often.
Well, it probably won't be till later in the day, I suspect.
We have a bit of work to do this morning, and then we're gonna do that shopping before we prepare.
Thank you very much for your time.
I just told this thing to generate me a elf name, and it literally generated me the elf at the Concordian Library, and his
The whole thing is, and I kid you not, his current role on Enderford is maintaining a ruined catalog ledger for expeditions that file reports to the library.
Yep.
And now I have a new best friend for us, so.
And I want to be clear here.
I didn't tell her to do that.
I know.
That is just random chance that it looked at my files.
What was the else name?
I don't know if I spelled that even remotely correctly.
Alerian?
It's E-L-A-R-I-O-N.
Hold on, hold on.
E-L-A-R-I-O-N. O-N. Olarion.
Olarion.
You can thank the Elven naming guide for that.
Yeah.
So.
You know, maybe this place isn't so different after all.
Different?
Yeah.
What's so different from what?
Well, I just mean like, you know, I was kind of at first intimidated by all of the people that are here.
It's a lot of people, but you need to know something.
You just ask somebody.
That doesn't always work that way.
What?
You got fucking Lucky!
She doesn't know that.
Marwin doesn't know that!
You got Lucky.
You got both the advice flow and the LRM generating exactly what you're looking for.
Yeah.
Apparently, these things happen.
This is pretty easy, right?
Like, you just walk in a tapper, you find an adventuring party, you turn around, I need information, this guy knows everything, this is perfect.
Next time I'm gonna be like, do not look at my own files and pick the most perfect thing for them to find, so they're too perfect.
You know, maybe the spell shop will be like, here's free scrolls, here you go, we're having a discount.
I'm gonna start, when I add my tromps, I'm gonna click.
Pay us like it on hard mode.
No.
No.
No.
Maybe.
Oh, so we did successfully complete a long rest, yes?
Yes.
Cool.
I have spells again.
Cool.
Not much has changed.
Oh, that sweet level one fighter life.
Right.
I imagine it was a longing camp.
I think we're fighting spiders outside.
Yeah, I think it's outside.
Yes, it's outside.
I'm going to bring Leer along just to get a little exercise.
Oh, OK. OK.
Massive Giant Egg created me three of them.
What, their shops?
Yeah, I'm just putting what the shop is in front of the name of the person.
So they can go under NPCs, because I think that's where I'm going to mentally look for them is under NPCs.
Yeah, because.
because these are probably places we're going to visit a few times while we're here.
Do we need anything from the weapon shop except hand axes or javelins or whatever?
I don't know.
You're going to use weapons here, so I brought my own.
But I guess ranged weapons, yes, we need a couple of those, but...
I will not be purchasing anything from the weapon shop, ma'am.
You have a shield.
Not one with a sword with your shield?
Not at the moment, that's fine.
So it's yours all.
And I asked him about a Weaponsmith, not an Armorsmith, so... Yeah, probably all my money is going to go at the Spellshop.
If there's anything left over, I will look into ingredients at the Alchemist.
Since we need, what, 100 gold each to do the expedition?
I think so.
Yeah.
So, even after the spider job, I don't think there'll be much left over.
I get to bring my pony.
Yeah.
Hey, Larry, try not to get Eden out there.
I need to write down ponies.
I'm having to populate the, um, Apothecary shop.
With stuff for you.
How do you spell your pony's name?
I told it not to be too polite.
Sorry, after the ALA lamp betrayed the DM the first time, I'm going to have to be a little bit more stringent on it, being like, hey, don't give them the perfect character for the adventure.
Too smart.
Not too smart, it's not smart.
It's just too connected.
I have to go spoil my pony a little bit.
It's important.
Mm-hmm.
Bring them treats.
I have to go play as I do, because I don't want any value.
He just glares and then he just... Would you like an apple?
Wasn't there already a login camp you had found, Nicole?
Oh, there is.
What are you doing?
Looking at the map.
Are you looking at the instructions?
I'm looking at the map.
Stop!
Pizza's ready.
Pizza!
Are we eating here?
I think we're eating at the table.
We're gonna be civilized people, Joe.
Marwin's making us be civilized.
I think we have to eat at the small table because the big table is the gaming table and you can't use a table for two things.
It's uncivilized.
Three times.
it.
for everybody.
So usually you have to put the pizza on the stove top.
You get the bottom of the crust.
But I tried a new technique where you just heat the pan to 400 degrees before you put the dough in.
Yeah.
That's how pizzas are made in an actual pizza oven or something.
Well, you use a pizza stone.
And you put the stone in.
They're very acidic.
They're very acidic, yeah.
Oh, I just have a different one.
Come on.
She's a little bit of a help sometimes getting stuff.
When we open the drawers or things like that.
Any activity right now.
That's really good.
I was surprised to hear that, honestly.
But you know, it's much better.
I mean, when people aren't here,
Yeah.
in the corner sitting.
Okay.
Good.
For me, the best pizzas have like a small amount of sauce and a few toppings.
Like it's going to have stuff on it that isn't cheese.
And I like stuff on it that isn't cheese.
You'll have like one, maybe two things and not like super covered.
I like pepperoni.
And I like black olives.
Pepperoni and black olives are a great combination.
Yeah.
Ah!
There's skeletons in here, Joe.
Yeah?
Yeah.
Yeah, apparently we couldn't go in there earlier, but we did.
Short of going digging in the tokens, you may have to use some of these guys for spiders.
We do not have spiders in here.
No, they don't have spiders.
You can use the tree things.
That's what was my thought.
Greetings.
Okay, so you go talk to the apothecary.
Is that the person who does the spider job?
No, you were asking about the apothecary.
Oh, we were getting leads.
Yeah, we're gonna do the spider jobs specific in the morning and then do shopping.
Oh, okay, fine.
We lost the writ document, so... Yeah, it's somewhere out there with Joe's stuff.
Yeah, the jobs.
Oh, that's right here.
Yeah, the writ board.
We know it's a little lumber camp.
Three miles south, Forest and past Millers Creek.
The camp clear tools retrieved.
80 gold on completion.
As for Gareth Thorne at Western Market.
Leather, saw, and more.
Oh, I guess we are going to the market.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, that'll be convenient.
So apparently we are going to the market.
Yeah, we didn't know it.
OK, yeah.
So the Western Market.
I haven't tried this one yet.
Actually, could you get me a water instead?
Where?
Uh, just out of the thing.
There's no water in this thing.
Okay, that's fine.
Joe, I have some sparkling water like that.
Or water from the tap.
I'm sorry.
No, it's okay.
That's why I filled up my water bottle and I drained it so I have no cold water to offer you.
I can give you a shaking service.
I put the cup of water in a shaker and I shake the combination up.
No, it didn't.
Okay.
Sorry.
So if you want lukewarm water, it's in my water bottle right now, or we can wait a while.
I'll wait a while.
Okay.
Sorry.
I just drained it during dinner.
I'm sorry.
I'm really annoyed at the L.M.
for that.
I should have told her to pick it up.
Nope, nope.
My best friend.
Best friend?
My best friend now.
Alright.
What about me?
You're pretty good too, Basker.
Well, we'll wait until you've given me an ear piercing.
I'll tell you.
I'll tell you what.
Maybe I should take charge of that particular endeavor.
I'm good at pointy things.
It's got to be difficult.
It's just a stat.
Like lightly, like... How about I do that for you?
Roll me your persuasion and if you give me anything above a 10, I will give you above an average in likeability that he likes you.
If you roll below 10, it's gonna be like, you know each other and if you roll me a one,
He thinks very little of you.
Somebody you know?
Librarian.
No, he's a librarian guy.
Cause I was joking, that's my new best friend.
Nope, not my new best friend.
Six!
I'm six, so you're mid.
I am beneath him.
You are some person that he has encountered.
I'm keeping my favorability score very simple.
I'm just a little level one nobody.
Yeah, you're a little level one nobody.
He's helped your kind before, but he doesn't think about it very much.
He knows it.
Here we go.
I am planning on keeping track of capability across different NPCs or factions, so that is something to keep in mind.
I picked the wrong campaign to talk Christmas on.
I'm sorry.
No, I'm joking.
I've done this to myself.
Also, Bazgar, you might get us in serious trouble with the Empire.
Favorability.
Well, usually if it started low, it's going to get lower.
Yeah, so I have you in here as the racist, so.
I'm noticing a lot of theme in this campaign.
Ew.
What kind of theme?
Lots of prejudice.
Is that a bad thing?
No.
Good thing?
I feel like that's how you get wars and not liking other people.
Mm-hmm.
I can make a list probably with this.
I just make it hatred.
No, Joe.
Universal hate.
No, Joe.
They just don't like- Ah, the purest of emotions.
Oh, that's cool.
To the Western Market, to Dr. Gareth Thorne.
So you come to the Western Market, and that's not what he's telling me.
Well, yes, West.
And you see quite a, he basically has a shop filled with all sorts of assortment of wood that he's selling.
And it's very clear that his shop doesn't actually have the wood you'd buy.
Like you won't take that wood and take it home with you.
He's selling, like, this is what you need to have you build your log cabin or whatever and we'll get it shipped to you.
Okay.
Now, uh, didn't tell me, I didn't figure out his, I guess I can ask the LLM.
What race is that name?
I'm pretty sure it's human.
Human?
His foot thorns are human.
Kind of name.
It just is a human name.
Just missing the geography suffix for some reason.
Um, there's normally be like thorn wick or something like that.
Okay.
Well, his last name is, Oh, cause his last name is just thorn.
He doesn't have, cause like I'm Ash Croft.
Normally you'd have like thorn wick, thorn Haven, thorn bay, something.
Gotcha.
Maybe he lost the suffix in a fight.
Well, I imagine there are prior some humans who don't have a suffix like that, but most human names classically have one.
And so he's there doing his thing.
How do you approach him?
Who approaches him?
He's a late, late thirties, scarred forearms, really makes eye contact, smells of pine sap.
My good friend, my good sir.
Whatever the correct introduction is, I would like to talk to you about the Lumber Camp spider incident.
There's a writ on the wall for- And also, any unusually colored wood that you might have access to.
And any unusually colored wood that you might have access to.
Ah, yes.
Yes, yes.
I have...
You're here for the... Spiders, yes.
Spiders, yes.
I can't meant south from here where we mine most of all wood.
It's infested with spiders.
And I'm very sure I lost two good workers there.
Okay, so they're decent sized spiders, not like...
Okay.
No, I don't, I don't, I'm not... Are there no local authorities to handle matters such as these?
You're reading the ancient ruins, aren't you?
That's why you're here.
We're here for odd jobs, but I thought maybe perhaps the...
The old government's plan, the council's plan.
Screw balls they are.
They wanted to get people like you.
I see.
In the area.
So we're a substitute for actual?
We are the local defense force.
This seems like a very interesting idea.
Convenient, right?
There's enough work for them to do.
They're building the roads.
They're guarding all of Avery and Vince Vance.
They didn't guard your lumber though.
It's this lake.
loyalty for coin, kind of?
I do not understand how you actually... You're just too spread thin.
If I go to them, I have to put in a petition.
I have to ask for it.
It goes in a long queue.
And when it gets to my turn, it gets to my turn.
And I have done that.
And when it gets to my turn, they'll go and do it.
But I am out of wood while I wait.
And so it's worth some money to get people like you.
And you want money to go explore the ancient ruins.
You're not unique.
I miss my home.
So, right, so that's why you're here.
For it's both ancient ruins and you want my good money, my hard work money.
He says that almost like saying get a real job.
To go, to go and go delve in some ruins for whatever's down there.
What can you tell us about the spiders?
Do you see, can I have an idea how many there are?
They're big.
Oh, what do you have down there?
I mean, I had two good men.
They didn't make it.
Well, I'd still be there.
I need a good look.
It's either two, maybe there's three.
Okay, that we can handle.
How big?
Size of, okay, you have all these blocks of wood.
Compare them to a block of wood.
Bigger or smaller than my pony?
Do you have your pony with you?
Yeah, I'm bringing it with me.
A pony is what, medium sized?
Mm-hmm.
You know, uh, about the size of your pony.
Okay, that's a big swing.
Oh, okay, medium sized.
Yeah, not as big as the ones we have left.
Kind of average for the size of it.
Okay.
Well, we are off, and be careful of the venom.
Spiders are usually very venomous.
You said you need tools retrieved?
What, any particular tools or something you need us to bring back or proof?
Yes.
Well, we need the tools and we need the camp cleared and I need, and if you can save my workers, they need the tools to get back to work.
Okay.
But if you can't save the workers, I still need the tools.
Okay.
So you get other people back to work.
He's very focused on it.
He seems more concerned about the tools than the workers.
So do you want us to bring the tools back here or just leave them there until you can send people out?
I'm putting them back here.
Okay.
I don't want to explain why I'm doing the next group.
I either don't like this man.
And if you can save, bring back the workers, that sure would be convenient.
Okay.
We'll see what we can do.
But if not...
I'm gonna give you an extra coin to bury them.
Out of sight.
All right.
I suppose we're off.
I don't know at what point this guy became an asshole.
Sorry, he's just gay capitalism.
You know what it is?
He's like the conservative member of this community, you know?
He says like, yeah, I just am a venture, take them a hard-earned coin.
Government doesn't do anything.
Oh my gosh.
I think that's what happened.
As soon as I said that in my head, he sounded like those guys are the public.
He doesn't care about fucking nobody.
He just wants his tools.
He's a fucking capitalist.
Brightside, this is the first NPC we've dealt with who wasn't racist to you.
Yeah, he wasn't racist.
Other priorities.
He hates everybody equally.
Ironically, he is one of the ones I hate the most that we met.
And he wasn't a dick to me, particularly.
Alright.
Off into the woods we go.
Now, we're not gonna talk to the spiders, right?
Why would we talk to the spiders?
How do you talk to spiders?
I mean, it's possible.
I just don't know if we'd learn anything useful.
You continue to get weirder.
Say that last part again.
What were you saying?
I was asking, are we going to try to talk to the spiders?
And then what did you say after that?
What did I say after that?
You know it's possible.
He's not sure.
I said, I mean, I can do it.
And then you said, I know it's possible.
I know it's possible.
And then you hear cough.
So I have to ask.
This is it.
Good spirit or a bad spirit?
Yeah, they close up.
Well, it's like... Because not all spirits are good.
It's a judgmental spirit.
I'm seeing this.
It's supposed to be serving one specific purpose, but seems to be serving another.
The bird's up there being a bird.
Stop you around.
Now I can just feed a bird.
Look, don't pay it much mind.
Weirdo and weirdo.
Okay.
Did you ever given...
So I think Marwin was calling it cinder before I
Learn more about it, and I haven't called it my name recently.
Okay, you stop calling it sooner.
Okay.
So.
As you think, woof.
Yeah.
Your personality, okay.
Yeah.
So, we are doing spiders because there are people involved first and shopping later?
Yes.
That is a plan?
Okay, then to the lumber camp.
Also, that would be of the money, all the money to go hire the dwarf and do the shopping.
Yes, more money is very useful.
If we see a particularly nice log of wood at this lumber camp, I'd like to make a flute out of it.
Oh.
What I would say at this point, you have noticed that this bird, oh, you're going to make a flute out of it?
Yeah, absolutely.
You have noticed that this bird does just always, like flies way ahead and you see it while you walk by.
And then flies way ahead again and you see it while you walk by.
Oh, you just kind of,
It's lingering around.
Are you known on as friendly terms with your bird pet as you are with your bird?
Again, the crow serves a specific purpose.
As opposed to Flicker is my companion.
Ah, that makes sense.
tried asking the crow to be nicer and maybe make friends with it.
So here's maybe a better way to think about it.
The crow belongs to somebody else who's not going to get any less judgmental.
You're being watched.
I do not like the way you phrased that.
You didn't do something bad, did you?
I didn't do it.
It's not like that.
Okay, good.
That is fine, then.
Supervision isn't always a negative thing.
I know, but just like you are being watched.
It was very ominous, I'm sorry.
I will say this.
The crow is a friend.
Oh, good.
Look up, was that a judgmental call?
Was that a... Was that just a... See, every time you look up a stamp bird, it's acting like a goddamn bird.
but like some of these cause there's that part of Marwin that's like you feel differently at this point.
Like you just like, especially did you just, did you in character tell about the earlier, did the eye rolling did not come up?
Okay.
No, no, no, I have not.
Okay.
Yeah.
So airy.
They,
You swear sometimes that bird understands you, but at the moment you're like, no, it's just coincidence.
It's just, it's very frustrating.
Yes.
So just try to ignore it.
It's going to be there.
Okay.
Good luck ignore you.
I have a crow.
I know.
I'm starting to learn not to be so sorry for the people around me because everything since living home has just gotten weirder and weirder and that's just not stopping.
But you know what?
This is the world we live in.
It's good to know.
I should introduce you both to Lear.
With the pony.
Mm-hmm.
Nuzzle.
Here, here's an apple.
You can feed it to me.
Bazgar will happily feed an apple to Lear.
Speak, friend, I listen, and I will cast Speak with Animals.
Hey, Lear.
Hey, Lear.
The pony.
Oh.
Hey, what's up?
It's a young pony.
Hey, do you want an apple, or are you sick of him at this point?
I'll take an apple.
Here's another one that buddy.
He hates it.
Yeah.
So what do you like horse noises and stuff like that?
What do you what do you make of your sabriel hair?
She's awesome.
OK. Best.
We have an onset of an elf.
Probably doesn't think of you as an elf.
Best two legs ever.
We've been traveling together for a while.
Ever since I left.
Bipedal.
Best bipedal ever.
Very glad to hear that.
Hey, just so you know where we're going, there may be some dangerous things, big spiders.
Just try to stay back, okay?
Don't get eaten.
Okay, I can do that.
Okay.
Thanks.
I will actually pet Lear and Asghar is staring at you.
Awesome.
What?
You're awesome.
Oh, thanks.
She has the best friends.
Yeah.
Yeah, um, Blair's actually pretty chill.
I'm surprised.
Why is that surprising?
I just, I described, um, him.
Uh, yesterday I expected him to be fussy.
He's not fussy.
He's very calm.
He's kind of good with the flow.
He just likes good food.
Don't we all?
Okay, so how do you purchase camp?
Um, I think that...
I think that since this is definitely going to be a fight and not a, um, maybe negotiate-with-gobble situation, we should sneak in.
Quiet, law, and see if we can sprain an ambush from them for once.
Ambush a spider?
Well, why not?
If they end up hanging out in the trees a bunch of Asgar, stay close to me until I work a little bit of magic on you.
I can help you get to them.
If I tell you to jump, you jump.
Okay, I like the sound of that.
I'm not afraid of magic, just putting that out there.
The weird animal talking is weird because it's weird noises, not because it's magic.
Just be quiet.
I'm gonna help you hit them with an axe.
Yes, I like this.
It becomes necessary.
Otherwise, I'm gonna probably do more fire.
So, when you come here, you see that that problem is described to you even from a distance.
You see just what looks like snow.
It's a little early for snow.
And you get a little closer, you see that
You see stacks of logs, you see cabin, and it's just everything's covered in web everywhere.
You see two cocoon-like, well, looks like a body in there, hanged up into the trees, dangling down.
One of them is still wiggling.
The other is still... sneaky, sneaky.
Gonna try and get close without... Is this the Nomura camp?
I think so, I don't know for sure.
You guys might have found that somewhere better.
We'll go with that.
If you want, we can look for more.
No, that worked.
You started fussing at me when I was looking at the back of the box here.
No, I was like, why would you do that?
Sharla!
Sharla!
It's here!
I need things.
You're not using this.
These were going to be the spiders, you figured.
This is logs.
Okay.
I may have to open it if I need to light things on fire, but yes, otherwise good.
Perhaps Basghar retrieves the Living Occupant?
Uh, that might be a good option.
Here, Basghar, you should be in the front.
And then we need some more terrain.
Ah, yes, this is a good idea.
I will retrieve the Living Occupant.
Which will probably trigger the spider.
I don't know what that is.
What is that?
Um, you know what?
We need something to be the cabin, Joe.
That's the cabin.
We probably need something to be the two cocoons, right?
Yes.
To know where they are located.
Is that a spitzer by the two cocoons?
No, I need something other than a box.
There's other minis in the box if you want.
No, but we have to go get a box.
is the shrooms, I mean, people.
And it is hanging out.
The cocoons.
Cocoon.
How webs are really psychedelic colors in this region.
Yeah, man.
And you see, yeah, that's the situation.
And that is a spider?
That's a spider, yeah.
Just one that you see.
Wibs everywhere.
Plant.
I sneak in, I kill the spider.
then other spiders probably try to kill me, and you burn them.
As long as you get the person out first.
I mean, I will protect the person, but it might be that we have to kill the spiders before we can really deal with the person.
Bird flies over here, and she's chilling.
Spider doesn't know, spider doesn't, you know, the bird doesn't register, yeah.
Good plan.
I bait, I sneak in.
Okay.
Right before you leave, should I cast Bless?
I mean, I'll probably take Bless.
Bless is good.
Yeah.
It depends.
I want to do it when the action actually comes off, because it's a minute.
I will go ahead and Blade Ward myself in preparation before we enter.
OK. That's my little defensive feature.
I think you can go ahead and Bless, because my plan is to stealthily
be lying to the spider and murder it.
Like, I'm not gonna be sneaking around a whole lot.
I'm trying to just get as close to the spider as I can before it sees me.
Where is your nature check?
Do you want this little nature check here?
Or what?
Do you mind just saying the spider?
Sure.
12.
Yeah, I think you got good enough.
I'm just gonna make an average.
These spiders...
Poison is incredibly strong.
Yeah, the Blast will probably be good.
What does that look like, Nicole?
Oh, I am writing in my shield, of course.
So, Sabriel will come to stand in front of Bazgar as you're getting ready to leave.
And there's going to be
They'll sing something softly, I don't know the words yet.
But then they're gonna take like, they're gonna touch like where their chest, their heart, and like kind of draw a line from mine to yours.
And then mine to yours.
And I'll cast Bless on all three of us.
That adds a D4 to our attack rolls and saving throws.
D4?
Yep.
Okay.
You know, I was making a subtracted D4 earlier.
Just adds a D4 for us.
Okay.
Positively.
Okay.
I am going to try and, or there's more like tree line and like stumps and cabin and stuff.
I'm going to use some of that as cover to kind of get as close to the spider as I can before it notices me.
I'm basically trying to sneak up as close as I can and then charge if I get caught.
I want to ambush this thing as best as possible, but if I can't get an actual like surprise attack,
I at least want to have gotten some distance.
How are you moving so you don't step in webs?
They're everywhere, like just the entire ground is blanketed with webs.
Uh, Bazgar doesn't know that spiders sense things through webs.
Okay.
You are...
It's not going to work, but if... With my 12 nature, is that something I would realize?
Well, it sounds like Jeff already decided to take an action.
Okay.
So how many spaces are you?
One, two, three, four, five, six.
Where are you going?
Where do you want to go?
I was thinking I'd come around this way just because there's stuff to act as a little cover and then come like that swing.
I'll let you choose your fate.
High or low?
Low.
Is that bad or good?
Low is good.
Low is good.
If it goes low, I will let you decide
when you figure out you're predicting it.
I think we need to introduce Joe to ID6 system sometime.
Okay, so that means I get to choose.
You're right here, line of sight.
It could see you, but it didn't.
Hasn't started you.
And you, what system?
It's something we can tell you about later on.
It's what we've used in RPT.
It's a simple simplified
I did what you keep doing.
I can do my own randomization.
I just like to put in the player's fate.
No, how you do it is literally you could have somebody roll a d6.
A 1 means something catastrophic happened.
A 6 means something good happened.
You want me to do it instead?
And if you need to increase the odds of generating something, you have multiple people or all three roll a d6.
Sure, we'll do that in the future.
Because it still gets the player, because now the player is the one rolling.
Oh yeah, that way it's your fault.
Yeah, exactly.
That way it's the...
I got a 1.
War 1d6 is in your fate.
6!
5.
5.
So how does that... what does that mean?
So, generally high is good, low is bad.
Are we going with that or do you already pick?
I'm okay with the, like initially you had me initially.
It's not that was happening.
So I think we stick with that.
So you get, you get stuck and basically you're stuck in the web despite it doesn't seem to know you're stuck.
Not yet, but you're like, it's sticky.
You need to break it.
I am going to see if I can cut my way loose quietly, but I don't even know what role that would be.
You can attack it, but I can't imagine that's quiet.
Um,
Yeah, because I would not be taking big swings.
I would have to be leaning and slicing.
Stealth or sleight of hand?
Yeah, I agree.
Either of those would work, because you can say stealth as you're just being really stealthy.
I would do stealth, because I'm good at that.
Hold on, I need to decide the difficulty.
No, you.
I feel like this is hard.
Not with skill checks, no.
This is hard, it's 15.
Okay.
You're in line of sight.
No, that's bad.
That's a six.
Um, which one did you do?
Stealth.
Stealth?
It sees you, and you're still stuck.
Shit.
And um, yeah, so you're engaged.
I'm not gonna have your scroll initiative wait yet.
Okay.
Because it's not decided to attack you yet.
It doesn't.
Unless you say I'm gonna attack it.
It sees you as a curiosity.
This is an animal, not a monster.
It's just hungry.
It has food.
You don't know that, but it's not just that.
I'm trying to cut.
It turns and sees me.
I just kind of freeze like, oh shit, but it doesn't charge immediately.
So, okay.
Just looking at you with curiosity at this point.
Creepy, creepy, curious.
It doesn't seem to be going well.
We gotta stop sending him ahead on his own.
I got a video, you wanna see it?
No.
No spiders.
Should we attack it?
I don't know.
I think Baz is going to go, well, it is...
staring at me, it's not sneaky anymore, but maybe it doesn't know what's going on, whatever.
And I'm gonna just start, no more stealth, just cut myself free as best as I can.
If that triggers an attack, that triggers an attack.
Because I am probably, when I am free, going to see if I can engage it.
You're freed.
Okay, so you know there's where you came from, and you realize that you got lucky as far as you got lucky, unlucky.
And there's wood in front of you.
So you can... Are these trees or stumps?
Yeah, they're on the stumps.
Stumps?
Okay.
Where does the web start?
Cut.
The webs start here in a big circle.
Okay.
It's not always even, but the...
I would say, you know, the road's edge.
Yeah, I'm coming right up to the edge of it kind of to get a better look out of what's happening.
Is the stump, like the top of the stump out of the webbing?
I would say so, yeah.
If I'm free, I'm gonna jump to the top of the stump.
No, you don't need to roll for that.
You can do that.
And we're still not in combat yet.
The thing just seems defensive.
Like it's taking you in.
So like it kind of moves around and it's like trying to figure out if you're gonna attack it.
What are you doing?
What's your intent?
Arwen, Sabria, the plan did not work.
Do you want me to talk to it?
Sure.
I guess so, sure.
We're gonna need to drive them out.
Do you think you can convince it to leave its food behind?
Probably not, but let's find out what's the worst that could happen.
Speak, friend, I listen.
I will quick cast Speak with Animals this time.
You can do that.
I can, once per day.
Oh, that's pretty neat.
So, um, I will start that up.
Uh, last for 10 minutes.
And, uh, I will call out, um, gosh, I'm talking to a giant spider.
You need to leave this area.
Who says that?
Where's that coming from?
Am I thinking that?
I'm not thinking that.
I'll step out a little bit more obvious.
This writer now kind of divides its attention with both of you.
Uh, actually probably the bird flies over here.
Bird bird goes kaka.
You swear that kaka was annoyed.
Like it wasn't an annoyed kaka.
You're starting to pick up the different.
And also you have speak under, you have speak so you know,
That it is not speaking, but in that the ca-ca was annoyed.
Yep.
And it moves over there.
Other bipedals are going to drive you away from here.
You should leave before they come with fire and weapons.
Food.
Leave food not worth life.
Take food.
I'm trying a different tactic.
Fire begins to appear in my hand.
Leave food my territory now, my food.
Whoa, intimidation.
Actually proficient in this.
What would that be, a 13 then?
I believe it's 13.
He does like fire.
I do like the fire.
The spider scrambles over here.
It's a huge spider, and when it gets really close to you, you can see its size is quite intimidating.
Is this the living person or the dead person?
This is the dead one.
Okay.
This one's already dead.
Saying, suggesting that it can take it with him.
Mine.
We split so you keep that one.
That one so wiggles.
I'm just going to burn a little bit of the edge of the web and say mine.
I feel like that's another intimidation check.
I wish we could understand what she's saying.
Twelve.
Spider seems upset.
Marwin, am I chopping the spider?
It's your idea.
Be ready to do so.
We're negotiating.
I keep the human.
You can take the, my eggs will eat.
The spider takes out some of its eggs that it's brewing and is willing to trade them with you.
You would give up your young so easily.
They're quite tasty.
And I have more.
Good protein.
How high up is that hay?
1D6, high is good, low is bad.
One.
It's way up.
The spider actually had to go up some of its webs to get to it.
You're like, me too.
Decide for you, Marwin.
No deal.
Humans mine.
That egg's not good enough for you.
Almost insulted you won't eat its eggs.
Need that food.
Did you want a sampling?
It's good.
It's not.
That won't be necessary.
You don't like my brood?
No.
This spider
Pushes back and insults.
Which will it be?
You leave or you burn?
Such a long pause.
Spider paces.
And the spider paces back.
And the spider paces there.
And then he finally decides to take
Some of the eggs, not all, and one was often in force.
Did we win?
Well, it left the bodies.
Can you get the living one down?
I will attempt this, yes.
Well, you left some of the eggs, right?
You did leave some eggs.
Check out the eggs while he's cutting down that person.
Okay.
Are they like close to hatching?
Show me a luck.
A D6?
Yeah, six is good.
I might've made a mistake in teaching you this mechanic.
I love this, this is great.
Five.
Five, you're gonna, that's lucky, right?
Yes.
You're lucky.
Not super lucky.
Not super lucky.
It's more my favorite than not.
There are the total of six eggs.
Because conveniently, one of them will hatch in right now.
And it wants to attack you.
I was about to say, when it starts to hatch.
OK.
Roll me your initiative.
If you beat its initiative, you ought to win.
Three.
Oh, it gets a bite on you.
Roll me DC Khan to not be poisoned.
Okay, does that have to make an attack roll or anything or no?
Oh, you're right.
I'm so sorry.
Subtract a d4 from it.
You're right.
You're right.
I'm sorry, Evil GM, I got excited.
Do smaller things typically have an easier time to hit?
No, that's old stuff.
Okay.
Yeah, it just has an attack roll.
And he's probably not going to have these stats because it's a baby.
So, I'll give it just a plus two, and then, yeah.
Does an eight hit?
It does not, and you'd have to minus a d4 on top of the nine.
You're right, so.
It continues to not hit, but.
So, yeah.
It hits like even a six, so it does not hit.
Okay, does not hit.
I would say all you gotta do is land a single hit on a damn thing.
How hard could that be?
I don't know.
Does smaller things have higher AC?
Sometimes.
It's kind of if it's smaller and couldn't make use of it, like it's small and agile, it'll often... Well, it's small and it's in its natural environment, so yeah, I'll give it a decent AC.
Bigger things tend towards lower ACs.
It's not a universal, but...
So I think continuing our weird trend of early level spellcasters having to use weapons, since I'm engaged with it, I'm gonna draw my dagger and try to stab it.
Okay.
Because otherwise I got this advantage, so I'm still blessed.
Yay, wizard stabbing.
Apparently I'm very good at stabbing.
It...
It says that things that you really hate.
Thanks, you're welcome.
23 to head.
Oh yeah, you hit it.
for four piercing damage.
And the moment that you think it's finally dead, one of the eight legs just twitch just a little bit.
Such an asshole.
Cool, I can make really good use of this.
I'm gonna burn all the other eggs before anything else can hatch on me.
Yeah, I think we need to start chopping and burning away this.
Get the survivor down, get him or them to a Sabriel to stabilize and make healthy.
And then yeah, we're gonna see if we can
get rid of as much of this web.
I can stabilize them.
Marwin is clearly going to save some of these spider webbing and take some like legs and bits off of the baby.
Marwin, where did it go?
I don't know.
It's not here.
Is it going to come back?
I told that this is my territory now.
That basically I threatened it away.
Do you look at the two bodies?
You unwrap them?
Yeah.
You find one guy is fine.
The other guy needs a medical immediate attention or he's going to die.
Oh, well.
I assumed he was dead already, but if he's not dead, he's comatose.
Oh, I can stabilize him.
Yeah.
It's just, uh, why don't you use your, do you have, you can use healing magic.
You can also use a medicine check.
Um, I have,
I have a Cantrip Spare the Dying.
So I can just- It literally stabilizes you.
It just stabilizes you.
It doesn't bring him to consciousness or anything, just stabilizes.
Is that magic?
Yep, that's a spell.
It's magic.
It's cantrip.
So it's not like powerful magic.
Whoa, one meter religion.
Okay.
Uh, 23.
Okay.
It's really good.
Like, lasting.
Noticeable.
Amazing.
You almost, like, way over-killed it.
We flushed the poison better out of the system.
Yeah, flushed the poison out of the system, yeah.
Okay, this was not one of my better plans.
How do we get rid of all the webbing without, like, burning it and setting the forest up wind?
You can try to do a careful burn, but it's gonna take some time.
Honestly, the clean-up's gonna be more Gareth's problem than ours.
We should make sure there aren't any more.
Yes, we should check the perimeter, look around, make sure it's safe, and people can come back here.
I'm a little worried that with the spider leaving the it's coming back thing.
But I don't know what to do about that.
We'll just have to hire more guards.
Um, you saved some of the babies as proof?
You saved some of the workers as proof?
Oh.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because no, I did not.
After the first one hatched on me, I went ahead and burned the others.
I got this!
But I plan on taking pieces of it.
I didn't get the big one, but this seemed preferable, like Bhaskar being eaten.
I was not in danger of being eaten.
I was out of range of the spider.
I couldn't hit it.
The spider was just, it's just an animal.
It's just doing what comes natural.
It just needs to not do it here.
So it'll do it someplace else?
But it may not hurt people.
It may just go eat a deer or something.
Just an animal.
So it's okay to negotiate with goblins, but not animals.
No, I have no problem.
negotiating with animals.
Seems like a pretty... substantial threat.
We can always track it?
I mean, it will be out of its territory now?
No webbing?
If you really want to?
No.
Well, um...
I will take a look around and see if it is cleared out.
If you want to do a controlled burn to try to remove webbing, you can do that.
I don't know if, like you said, maybe it's his job to clean up the webbing.
But we should at least look around and make sure there are more of them.
Agreed.
So I will take a parameter sweep.
Is there a cart that would normally be used for calling logs and things?
One that my pony can pull.
Not like a big one.
I think it's lucky, Laurie.
Oh, good luck.
This is pure luck.
Four.
There it is, yeah.
Okay.
Then I'm gonna hitch Lear to the cart and load the two people in there.
Okay.
I think you and I then are on the patrol look around.
Yeah, quick survey, make sure there aren't any more of them that the webs don't like.
Cause like you said, it was a circular web.
Cause if the, if the circular web does this and then also does like this, that's two sets of web.
That's probably two spiders, but if it's just one circle and the web just has.
You help?
I said I was helping, so.
Who is doing it?
Who's going?
I am fine either way.
Go for it, you're good at it.
Just, you don't know you're not good at it.
Yeah, 13.
But you did ask earlier.
I think we're both trained in it too, right?
I am not trained in it, but I have a positive score.
You don't think there's any other spiders here.
There might have been more, but the other one left, if there was one.
You're pretty confident.
I think the area is clear.
All right.
Excellent.
Sorry we didn't get to fight something again, Mazgar.
I hope this does not become a running theme, because I'd be very sad not to.
If it had just attacked you, I think it would have been pretty cut and dry.
Part of the whole point of this for me is to get stronger and fight things and get better.
I'm pretty sure we still get experience points for solving encounters.
But next time it's a big rampage.
Next time it is a big monster type thing.
I get to fight it?
Yes.
Excellent.
Again, if you want, we could hunt down this one.
I just figured it's an animal being an animal.
I would be fine hunting...
I'm on board with hunting it down.
I like this plan.
The problem is the way you say that is very like... Judging.
Don't do that, right?
Exactly.
Very judgy.
Okay, we're over here.
I feel like Sabriel is judging me.
C-Pro does not like the way I handled it.
Well, um, it worked.
It was weird, but it worked.
It's weird, bad.
No, I don't think so.
I mean, we're all a bit weird or else we'd be back home, right?
That's a good point.
Was that okay?
You talking to the crow?
Crow's acting dumb.
Okay, let's get these people back.
Oh, and the damn tools.
They're probably under the webs.
If you burn them, you'll burn the tools.
Video search, investigation, find tools.
Yes.
It's kind of easy.
I mean, I will help.
I got a nice trade, but I got 21.
Yeah, you find all the tools very easily.
I think we start by looking together and then Bazgar starts to get bored.
Like, he's still, like, going through the motions, but he's kind of, like, just half-assing by, like, just a few minutes in, just, like, does not care anymore.
I think I need a jacket.
Or I can turn up the... No, go get a jacket.
Really?
I'm warm.
Is it too hot in here?
No, it's comfortable.
It's okay.
It's a little hot.
Do you want me to turn it down?
I think I'm the minority.
Go get a jacket.
Okay.
I didn't mean to understand.
I don't...
I always wear jackets.
You know, and what it is is I turned it up for Shelby.
I think that's what's going on.
I think those are all our jackets, Joe.
Yeah.
Yeah, those are all ours.
Gone for it.
Sorry, I have three jackets, Joe.
Because I have to layer I freeze out there There's a big difference between out there and in here Your face doesn't make sense
I did not realize there was a collection challenge.
Yeah, with the hats.
Yeah, but I did not realize that.
It's not Lorva's summertime knock.
Not yet.
Are you starting to fade?
Do you want coffee?
Do you want any notes?
Do you want caffeine or decaf?
Whatever you're making this way.
I have to make separate shots so you get to pick.
Oh.
I'll decaf if you're making separate.
Yeah.
Okay.
One shot, two shots of decaf.
One shot.
You want caffeine?
I think I'm okay.
You okay?
Do you have Christine?
I'm good.
You good?
What are you guys doing?
I was checking my phone because you had wandered off, but yeah.
In this case, it's Pokemon chat.
I'm checking Pokemon chat right now.
What are the types of wood that are in this region since we're at the lumber mill anyway?
This is a hardwood forest.
What?
But I will... Everything in where you grew up is just superior in every way.
And the elven oak trees are enormous and ancient.
And nothing beats an elven wood in anything.
So these trees are subpar to your standards.
This isn't for like a long-term keepsake.
I think it's just for, since I used to previously pass the time weaving, I'm looking to replace my current hobby activity.
And I think I might get into like wood carving.
Oh yeah, that'd be great.
Just one thing to note though, you're just kind of mildly annoyed at all the forest outside of your own world while all the saplings.
In size and comparison, you're quite used to trees that are like...
It's a very baby world out here, I understand.
Yeah, it's a baby world.
Humans get impatient.
They cut down their trees.
Don't really give them time to mature.
I'm going to get a few samples and see what types of flutes I can make out of these young trees.
Yeah, you can get some samples.
It's a quite diverse area.
More when you've been staring at me.
You don't like how I handled it back there.
Not that, actually.
You made a compassionate choice and there's nothing wrong with that.
I think the difference in the situations was on one hand, we have a scenario where when our opponent had been given an opportunity to attack a harmless individual, they made efforts not to, and we were pursuing that direction.
And on this hand, even if it was a creature's natural instinct,
The natural world is very based on strength anyway.
It would have been perfectly normal for us to simply eliminate the threat long term.
Whereas, say, I know perhaps I have a different perspective on time, but there will come a day to pass when it realizes you are not occupying this area any longer.
this bit, unless it claims territory elsewhere.
Also, what's a stop to the one goblin we let go from coming back with more of its kind and continuing to hunt the sheep?
Because I knew that was plentiful.
These are simply what-if scenarios, but...
The instincts of the spider were far more deadly than those of that goblin.
To people, yes.
I'll find it.
What do you guys do next?
We gotta go turn in the guys and get paid and then we gotta go shopping.
We're currently having an ethics conversation here.
No, did you guys night chase down a spider?
Right now the plan is no.
No?
Okay.
So, I've offered for us to do so if they would like.
I'd like to, but, just saying, I would like to.
Are we hunters?
Are we mobs?
So, according to this, you get 80 gold per, you get an extra 20 gold per, and he owes you a favor.
You will do furniture lumber or supplies as a favor.
Sorry, it was 80 and how much?
So it's 80 plus 100 per, because you saved the, well no, no, no, no, it's 20 per live worker, you saved two.
So you both, everyone gets 80 gold, but then you get an additional 40 gold, you can choose how to split.
So you want to divide that evenly.
So it's what, not at least 90 and then...
Extra 10 gold.
You know what?
I would just do it where it's 95.
I'll throw in an extra five gold so it's a nice even split, keep the math.
Easy and you can't complain because I'm giving you an extra five gold.
Yeah.
He's very happy.
And of course, he's more than happy to give you that in lumber since, you know.
He said he owes us a favor.
You wanted a piece for a flute, right?
favor he owes, I don't think, I mean, yeah, I just took it anyway, I didn't stop to ask.
What?
Alright, she took a little piece from the cap.
I just took pieces from the lumber up.
But yeah, you're talking like takes a long time for him to stop.
Longer than tonight, we're having a very different ethics conversation.
Yeah, you could probably like bet he doesn't care about that.
He builds, he builds.
It was, like, small pieces.
It wasn't, like, scrap pieces.
He builds boobies, canvans.
So, like, the fave would be, like, if you guys see an opportunity... What if you need a boat?
Yeah, he'd probably sell wood for a boat.
Point is, he owes you a favor.
You can write his name down, if you want.
Mark, it sounds like we're not going to immediately cash in the favor.
We don't have something immediate.
I'm the evil DM.
I'm not going to remember the favor she owes.
Well, I'll make a note of it.
I don't know, because I just recorded it.
So I'll just pull it out of the dogs.
It's fine.
Jeff's in charge of our loot inventory.
So Jeff will write down one favor from Lumberbo guy.
Yeah.
You know, putting that in an inventory is a good idea.
I will be, um,
That's my hope with this recording.
I don't know if it'll be successful with this one.
I'd probably be better if we ever do a Discord.
I'll probably be there just because I can put a bot in that records every individual voice and it'll have the names.
This is going to be a challenge to what I can pull out from my app because I know I can get all the text.
It'd be interesting to see if it's able to, if I'm able to accurately know which of you are talking and be just saying that to that person correctly without me having to review the whole damn thing.
So.
Do you want to keep this for posterity?
Yes.
We completed the job board.
Now to spend the moneys.
Shopping!
I have all the documents listed for you, Christine.
I thought about like, hey, I'll just give them the whole list, put that on it.
No, I can roll it.
Might be fun.
However you want to do it.
I'm going to do glass radius, I think.
You roll and I'll give you what the items nearby it.
We don't have to roll for the other goddamn item because that was kind of silly of how I did it.
Are you going to do apothecary?
Um, I'm most interested in actually hitting a shop that might have spells for sale first scroll, stuff like that.
Yes.
Because I'm a wizard by class, which means, uh, basically early money goes into making my classwork.
Look, I gave, I gave you a lot of spells.
Yes.
Thus, you had to spend a lot of money on it.
Yes.
This is very true.
Yes.
I didn't generate it.
I'm having to generate it now.
Okay.
It's reading the spells from the, from the API.
You can probably limit it to just first level, since those are the only ones she'd be interested in buying at this point.
Correct.
Because I can't afford anything more, nor would I be looking for something I cannot cast at this point or learn.
The instructions I gave is to focus on level one.
Okay.
Okay.
and then to get more level ones and twos and more, and so on and so forth.
So it would be mostly level ones.
I guess this way the shop is populated for the future.
That was my thought process, was that- You didn't go all the way up to ninth though, did you?
I limited to, I think, level three.
Okay, yeah, that's reasonable.
You probably don't have a random shop in Arden Forest that sells meteor sand.
No, no.
Time to save up my pennies!
Look, I said my goal was to eventually cast the length of the spell in a game.
I never said how.
This is a fine spell that creates an unseen servant that will do your laundry for you.
And this scroll over here will destroy an entire army.
Goodbye, Arden Ford.
We knew you'd choose
Yeah, it's like, um, it's like four 40 foot radius templates Yeah, and you can cast it from a mile away Yeah, and certainly people within a few levels of us are definitely dead.
It does not matter what they rolled.
I
Correct.
Yeah, cuz it does like 40d6 for the damage Yeah, it just levels a very large area and everything in there is toast unless it's like a dragon or something really scary No, I cast it with an NPC I cast it on an army Joe I was part of an encounter where that was meant to be like artillery barrages It was effective
It's a really, it's a very high level, like, oh my god, they've got that, we are fucked, kind of scenario.
Like, it's great.
It's not something that you would encounter in 90% of battles, even 90% of wizard battles.
Correct.
But it's fun when it comes out.
So no, I'm not looking for that.
Yet.
I love meteor swarm.
I just assume you don't go buy nine public spells?
Yeah, I assume so.
I assume if you ever have an opportunity to do something like that, it's not that you're buying the scroll or something.
It's that you've made a connection with an archmage who is willing for like a price, probably not just gold, to let you copy a spell from their spellbook, from their record.
It's a trade.
It is not.
It's not in a shop.
I mean, I suppose there could be an archmage out there who sells their spells for money and that's just how they make their living.
They'd be really rich.
Be a really lazy way to be an archmage.
Maybe an elf who's been doing this for a few hundred years and it's just kinda like, I could be casting spells to rewrite reality, create castles where people do crazy, ridiculous things, make more money.
But this way, I just sit in a shop and do knitting and people buy,
buy like pages for my, like copy pages for my book?
I don't have to do anything.
I don't think you would find that very often.
No, certainly not.
You don't become an archmage if your goal in life is to be a knitter.
Or you're not ambitious enough to do more than knit, you know?
It was also the, like, who do you let use your magic?
Yeah.
Yeah.
You'd be insane not to be discriminating.
At that point, what you do is you run a magic school.
And then it is an entirely different scenario.
You're not just letting people read your spellbooks anyway.
Yeah.
So... Move over to Christine.
Why you do?
you don't get to be loomed over very often.
You need to do it sometimes.
It's your treat, your special treat for you.
Okay, I like this.
You don't need to go through all the basic stuff.
They're all really neat.
So I'm just gonna put that in the chat.
You can just take a look and you can see what's there.
Yeah, but none of that is what you're looking for.
Some of this stuff I need to, I don't know what they are.
Oh, that'll be okay.
You know, I regret any of this.
If there's anything you should regret, Joe, I will let you know.
Let me know.
I will double check.
Are you sure you want to have this in the game for XYZ?
No, they're not really magical.
Oh.
They're neat.
They're all neat.
OK, those are more just like, I see.
They're not actual spells.
They're just like cool little magical oddities.
Yeah.
Interesting Um, I do also want to go to the library whenever that becomes available Yes
When we've made our arrangements and done shopping, I would like to do that.
Is there a polite way to say that I do not want to go to the library?
No, there's no polite way to say that.
Very well.
I do not want to go to the library.
Where will you go instead?
I don't know.
I don't know anything about cities.
Here's an opportunity from an outside perspective of how the world sees
I don't have anywhere else to be either.
I don't know anything about this city.
You know there's a certain person who lives here.
That's true.
I do know somebody.
Alright, Christine, roll me a 1 day 20.
I'll tell you what spells are there.
Okay.
I'm going to put the 10 spells so you can go out twice.
Also, just so you know, because you said the first 20 are just out there, right?
Yeah, it's just in the...
I have to ask, number 19, customer return, the sin scroll with a discount.
What's the story?
You know what?
They say these things go...
It's out with the story.
Let me make this copy.
We'll figure out the story.
Okay.
It's a scroll case of dry glass.
I rolled a two.
A two.
You have, um...
It identifies a spell.
Yeah.
Identify, Mage Armor, Feather Fall, Silent Image, and Thunder Wave are options you can buy from the storekeeper today.
Okay, hold on.
Identify, Thunder Wave, Feather Fall, Mage Armor?
Yeah.
How much do they charge for some of these scrolls?
If you want the standard prices those do exist.
It's like 50, right?
Let me see if the check can tell me if you can check it.
I have it.
I definitely would like to put up for consideration the inks if we're gonna be exploring runes since they can be good ways to mark where we've been.
Um, oh like there's the signal one the signal blue.
Yeah, that's luminescent.
That's a good point No, it's to craft is 25 gold.
Yeah, but to buy it is 50 gold is usually for a first level.
Yes Yeah, and then the um the scroll case of dry glass keeps paper safe Even if dropped in a river if we have something important we find that we want to put in a scroll case I want to give one of these
That'd probably be a good one.
Are good things to look at, yeah.
And Romi... Romi and 1D20 with the 1D6 and whatever you get is discounted by to be 15 gold.
A five and a five.
A five on the D20 and a five on the D6.
One, two... Sleep is discounted for 15 gold.
To 15 gold?
Yeah.
Or buy 15.
To buy, you can buy sleep for 15 gold.
Oh damn, you should do that.
Super cheap.
Oh, that's gonna be on Nicole's list.
Okay.
I'm sorry, that's what you talked to, maybe Nicole wants it, it's super cheap.
Yeah.
Oh, Nicole has it.
She will have it in a few levels.
These discounts are a one-time thing.
Mm-hmm.
If you can get any kind of a store, I'm gonna have you all get it.
Yeah.
Is that the uh, the burn one?
Is that the burn scroll with the story or?
No.
Okay.
That was just me eating graceful.
Okay.
And you said, you know what?
Since I'm having you roll scrolls and they're not all fucking available, there should be good finds, right?
There's already good finds here.
Like, I already know what I'm going to be buying.
I'm just debating on, do I blow all my money on also scrolls I cannot scribe yet?
Yes.
I can also help furnish you with goldage.
I don't need a whole lot.
Yeah.
So Nicole, Joe put a scroll of sleep in front of me for 15 gold pieces.
That's a line that will be on your spell list in a couple levels.
Yes.
So should I avoid it to make sure we keep that divide?
Okay.
I'm not worried about that.
I mean, if you don't have that, you can always have it to use.
That's also true.
Alright, so then we were otherwise looking at the Signal Ink.
And what was it?
The scroll case that, excuse me, is like water resistant?
Yeah, I thought those would make good adventuring tools.
Yeah, we'll have to get prices for those.
I think cuz you're still thinking about the game is what's happening.
Yeah I think part of me was also said that I should waste it as supposed
But it'll be back before you know it.
I thought days passed by very quickly for you.
You just got hundreds of these things flooding around.
From the perspective of your days passing.
We're gonna need to make more money, Pascal.
Are you spending all the money?
I might be?
I don't know.
I figure we gotta get prices for other things.
Well remember, you still need to, uh... Save a hundred gold.
Save a hundred gold for the Dwarven, you know, commission.
Yep.
I was accounting for that already.
Well, goodness, we're going to find new ruins that are going to be filled with glorious things, so...
I can give you some gold to get some starting work done on your magic shit.
And I still have enough money for my hand axes and the wharf.
And the journey in general.
So you can take 150.
That's a lot of money, Bhaskar.
I do not need it.
This is not important.
And if I need it,
I will do more jobs.
This is commerce.
That is how they do things here.
That's a lot of money.
I anticipate we are going to make money going into these ruins.
I think that is usually how it works.
That is the idea.
And I would rather you have more magic at your disposal so we can be more successful than not bad.
So you want to know about the squirrel that was returned?
Yes.
No, that's real.
Fuck off ass.
This is Celsi Dongwell, which, what kind of name is that?
Cel-lis.
No, Celis.
Celis.
Dongwell.
Celis.
Okay.
And there she is, a half-elf.
Half-elf, by the way, to you.
Yeah, you swear they're just humans.
You know what?
You can't even tell.
You just see a human.
You see elves and humans.
You can't even tell there's a half out.
Yeah.
It was like walking through that.
Yeah, no, you can't tell.
Not without a check.
Um, so Elise, she looks at that skull and just shakes her head, no.
That skull is supposed to be...
Excuse me.
That skull is supposed to be a... Spinal that can...
of an ancient spell, except no one can read it, no one can know how to learn it, and the last person who tried to use it didn't make it with all of their parts.
They exploded?
Explosion would probably have been better.
So you can unlock the secrets of this spell.
What was it?
She, uh, should have turned into goo.
Oh, seems like a great challenge.
But not his whole self, which really made some complication on how to heal it, because when they tried to heal him, he just became more
The goo just looked more goo-ish.
It seemed like his form just kind of became goo.
I don't think the stone... Healing in ancient magic never makes goos.
...makes goo?
Who?
How did they return to you?
Look at that right arm.
See?
They didn't turn entirely into goo.
So it's probably fine.
I'm sure you can figure this out.
You're very smart.
So I don't think that's what the spell is supposed to be doing.
I don't think it's a goose spell.
I just don't think he can read ancient.
And even if he can read ancient, I don't think he can control it.
Can I take a look at it?
I don't even know how I made it back on the shelf.
Maybe it'd be better if you just let that, let me take that back to the back room.
She says, gets off on the counter and starts heading to remove it from the shelves.
I feel like I have to look at it, right?
I feel like I just have to kind of like, is that moment of like, so you go and grab it and she rushes over.
No, no, I think you're making a terrible mistake.
I just could not sell this to a customer.
I like,
Customers like my reach customers to return to me.
I'm just curious.
I'm not going to try to cast it or anything.
Oh, your persuasion.
I just want to look at it now.
Now before you roll, you're a wizard and you're talking to a wizard.
You can roll with the advantage.
No more check, but this is just a sales tactic.
Well,
Uh, I got a 13 because I, cause of negative one persuasion.
She really does not want to sell this.
Like honestly does not want to sell this to you.
It's not a sales tactic.
You truly can tell like you actually like I yank it from her to get it away from her.
I just want to look at it.
Look, see, I'm not even going to unfurl it all the way.
Please come, please come, please come over here.
She paid you over there.
She takes, she, she scrambles over some spills.
She pulls the spill.
She scribbles some things on it.
If you could please sign this.
I'm going to look at what contract she's put together.
It is literally written that all waiver that any marriages that happens to you or yourself or anyone around you or any of your friends,
or it goes on and on, that it's that other fault of the store and that you are liable for damages.
And also not to cast a spell or try or attempt to cast a spell within the store.
I don't know.
Don't open it.
You can take that with you.
Just take it with me.
Yes.
Okay.
She does not ask for gold.
Okay, I...
If you insist on it, you can just take it away from this place, please.
Okay.
You have...
When you look at the scroll, unlike a lot of the scrolls that look like they were scribed recently, this scene looks like it's seen better days.
And it looks like it's been passed through by many hands.
Except talking in that girl's voice.
We're just gonna be bringing it back down here, back to my chest.
So it's contagious.
Okay, so I need to add to my inventory, turn man into goose scroll.
This is the thing now that has happened.
So I will put that away so she's not freaking out anymore.
And um,
We wanted a price check on the signal ink and a few other things.
Yeah, it was a signal ink and it was the scroll case.
Yeah, the scroll case that you could dunk in a river.
Signal blue ink and... Are you guys okay with me acting voices?
We love it.
Cool, cool.
Just been doing an accent the whole time.
No.
Christine and I only haven't been because we're not
Good at them.
We also haven't figured out like voices for the character.
I didn't have my usual around the practice.
Am I good at it?
How did that come across?
That was good.
I liked it.
Nice.
Okay, I'm gonna just be totally, total confession.
I practiced my girl voice in the mirror earlier.
I'm gonna be happy to roleplay some girls here.
The girls gotta have like, the guys sound like, you know.
That was good.
Um, now why do I have to practice in the mirror for talking?
I don't know, but that's why I was doing it.
Okay.
Don't judge me.
Mirrors are bad.
Well, sometimes I get very nice humor.
I start talking to myself and I get paranoid because I'm like, Shelby's going to hear me talking.
Not about that, but like just anytime.
Cause sometimes she's like, what are you talking about?
Like nothing.
Get out of my head.
What are you talking about?
All right.
All right.
Price check on the signal ink, and there were some other things we were looking at.
Number six, ink signal blue.
It's luminescent.
The other thing is number 15, scroll case of dry glass.
You want seven?
Six.
Six.
Yeah, start with six.
What's the other one?
15, the scroll case of dry glass.
10 gold for one bottle, one else.
If you want a slight...
If you want a slight premium for the faint numinescent, still non-magical, it's 15 gold, which is basically the same thing, but just supreme, superior.
She sells it to you.
Oh, no, that's much better ink than that.
Do this.
Book me the parchment.
Read as if you're a noble.
Not that I'm saying that you're not noble.
You look very noble to me.
We're gonna smear it on cave walls.
It sounds...
Without a skip of the beat.
That looks so good.
Without a skip of the beat.
What a very noble cause.
She does not end on...
I don't think you can read through it.
I think she has no reason to doubt that.
Alright, so thank gold for that.
What else were you interested in, Saberone?
Did you not go for the Supreme?
The Superior?
Probably not.
No.
I don't need either version, but you know.
And in base case, it wasn't anything special.
Other than you get to put it by the title.
Anyways, the scroll case of Dryglass.
Oh, even if it gets dropped in rain.
Yeah, waterproof scroll case.
Again, price is 5 gold.
And 10 gold, you want it to be notably premium.
We should probably get the premium version.
I feel like she might as well be going, Amy, would you like a warranty?
It's the premium version is prettier.
I like my friend here.
No contracts required.
Good.
I'm not signing that.
Okay, I paid for the ink.
I will pay for the stroll.
I would, but I gave her most of the money.
No, it's fine.
I got it, I got it.
Are you sure?
I can give you back your money.
I don't know that I'm going to spend it right now.
I do not care about money.
And I don't have to keep buying hand axes, and even if I do have to keep buying hand axes, they're not that expensive.
It's fine.
What are we doing?
I will be spending money on the scroll of mage armor and the discounted scroll of sleep.
Okay.
I'm also going to get enough wizard components, whatever happens to me.
So you go buy the discount.
She pulls it out because she keeps the scrolls behind the counter.
Oh, you got very lucky on this one.
And she seems, just for a moment, annoyed at that price as she
She's not the one who writes discounts.
Hands it to you.
Some people just mislabel prices sometimes.
She's not a part-time stocker.
She's just a mislabeled.
You see her... A little disorganized, maybe?
You notice that when she takes that scroll down, she also removes the price tag from a few scrolls in the same bucket.
All right, I also want to get enough wizarding components, some 250 gold words to be able to scribe one of these spells into my book later.
Do you want me to carry this roll case in ink in my own inventory, or do you want that to be part of your inventory?
Oh my gosh, it's so much fun to generate content like this, because it's not like, oh yeah, they have all the spells.
So much fun.
Here's the thing, I would love to buy more, but I'm trying to, even though Jeff offered me all of his money, like literally, I don't want to turn around and go spend it all.
Because identifying him was also super tempting.
Isn't this still the first shop we've gone to?
It is, that's why I'm not spending at all.
Yeah, we probably need to look elsewhere too.
Generate the apothecary if you want to see what's in there.
Yeah, so we're going to be checking around.
We've still got to buy you the hand axes and stuff like that.
So Bazzar take your money back for now.
Okay, later on if we need to spend more we can, but it would cost a lot for me to learn all these spells right now.
Okay.
Did you want to see... Oh man, athlete level one shit, athlete shit, you might not find all that shit.
Yeah, did you go to the apothecary?
Alchemist, or apothecary.
Yeah, I guess anywhere that we're looking for healing potions, so either one.
Apothecary makes sense, makes more sense.
I wonder if they didn't have any in stock.
I imagine they're very high demand.
I imagine, yeah, with all the adventuring groups.
We're probably going to have to make our own.
We have our own healing potions.
Oh.
Well, there may be some times when I'm not within range of you, but... You were at the range with her?
Mm-hmm.
So, it's one page at a time.
You're true.
So...
Where do you go?
Tell me where you go.
I will simply stay closer.
So, um, Apothecary next or Weaponsmith?
Uh... Weaponsmith so I can get my axes and then not have to worry about what they have.
You have to buy new axes?
I threw the two hand axes and we just didn't get them back.
Never gone back.
Bazgar forgot to go look for them afterwards.
So they're gone.
They're gone.
He's really good.
So you go to the... You go to the...
Anvil and ore. Anvil and ore?
Anvil and ore. And for its most reliable working, weaponsmith, pentacle, steel, fear prices, and a hard rule against hero blades that will get someone killed.
Oh, he doesn't like hero blades.
That's terrible.
Hero blades?
Yeah.
So you guess he doesn't make weapons?
What?
What's the use?
What kind of weaponsmith doesn't make weapons?
Maybe he doesn't make swords.
Maybe he doesn't like swords.
Yeah.
He doesn't like the stereotype, right?
Don't use a sword, you idiot.
Use a spear.
He sells spearheads, shortswords, axes, daggers, crossbows, repair work, simple armor, fitting.
So he does sell that, so what's a hero sword?
Like a longsword?
A sword, he's on like a longsword craze.
Because he sells short swords.
Maybe it's a brand?
It's the classic.
Oh no, I get it.
He hates them because he's bad at like long forging.
Like making a longsword is a very difficult process.
Short sword's easy, axe head's much easier.
Longsword's hard, maybe he just doesn't have the either equipment, because you know you need a long quenching tank, you need a
big furnace, like a big smelter, a big forge you can put it in.
If he just doesn't have the equipment, or maybe, you know, then I'll just go.
No, he specifically says he's against them because they're gonna get somebody killed.
That's a statement that doesn't make any sense if you then sell short swords.
Yeah.
And other weapons in general.
Oh, I get it now.
Okay.
There's nothing wrong with them in the world.
Blanket, Branket, I can't say the name on it, it's Branket, B-R-A-N-I-K.
What's that?
Brannock?
Brannock.
Brannock at Javs Adventures who want flashy, over-designed, untested weapons, weird balance, unnecessary serrations, hollow grills, exotic aloes.
Gotcha.
He doesn't sell functional.
He doesn't sell World of Warcraft swords.
Yes.
For him, it's a hero blade built for
Ragging, not maintenance, prone for crap, so he builds reliable hardware.
Okay, perfect.
So you go in, you talk to him?
Yeah.
You see him, you see him hammering.
And when he sees you, he's startled.
What color is the icons?
Let me look at the icons, hold on.
And I'll get that.
I think that's in the...
I have icons, world factions.
History.
Looks like a tan.
What color are you?
Skin-wise?
Yeah.
Gray.
Gray.
Yeah, he startled when you come in.
Nah, I work from these places.
Who are you?
Who are you?
I'm from down south.
Is this going to be a problem?
You come with gold?
Yes.
No.
Excellent.
I am looking for some replacement throwing axes.
Oh, lumber mills that way.
Lumber mills sell throwing axes?
More than chopping axes, yes.
Chopping, yes.
That's what you want, chopping axes, right?
No, throwing.
You don't throw.
He gives you a look.
And he points at his sign that shows what he makes or what he has in it.
I'm going to read it right here.
Sparrow heads, short swords.
Oh, he does have axes.
I remember that's right.
It does say axes.
OK.
I don't know, it didn't say axes.
OK.
He makes them.
Excellent.
I could use a parrot.
You literally tried to give me all of your money earlier to buy spell stuff.
And then you declared me as the personal healing potion of the group.
Look, I am inconsistent.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, you need to see some axes.
You get to know him to some degree.
Brannock is an orc.
Granik is not an orc, he is a human.
He's just polite, he's nice.
He gets over very quickly.
But you do learn something from him.
The western orcs are not the same color as eastern orcs.
I've been through that region.
Would I think that they were typically green?
They are the color of their icon, which I don't know how to describe that color.
It's not quite gray.
Say, no, no, hold on.
Was it like, yeah, the Rock Confederation, right?
Yeah, so it's kind of like they're grayish.
Well, he's gray.
He's gray.
Same color.
Damn, when did he change his color, then?
Maybe they're the green ones, then.
We don't have a green faction.
Green orcs are classic.
It's just like cartoon green?
What kind of green?
Like olive green.
Olive green?
They're olive green.
Maybe that's what that's supposed to be.
I think that's what it's supposed to be, Joe.
It's just hard to tell.
I'm just going colorblind.
Yes, they're supposed to be olives.
Colorblindness isn't contagious.
Huh?
Nothing.
Are you hoping the color's not contagious?
Colorblindness isn't contagious.
No.
Standard price for the hand axes?
Five gold per axe?
Yeah.
and I will go ahead and- First time customer, he makes them for free for you.
Oh.
Yeah, he wants you to come back.
He looks you up like you're the kind of person you're gonna lose these.
Yeah.
You'll be back.
You'll be back.
They always come back.
You know why it is, I think?
It's probably the fact that you probably have the spot in your belt for two of them, and it's empty.
Yeah.
Please roll me your persuasion.
Notes.
Pen, stop making this not flat.
Bad, three.
You didn't even know it was your name.
We're just not very impressive yet, guys.
Not yet.
But the first tasting's always for free.
All four are just like the first acts.
Oh, four.
Oh, wow.
OK, I got it.
See, we're not spending that much money, Sabriel.
OK, about that.
We're doing pretty good.
He was embarrassed that he didn't think he had any in stock.
And so from that embarrassment, he just decided to give you four of them for free to kind of like, he was just embarrassed.
Save face.
Save face.
When he realized that, oh, we do have axes here.
Poor Joe.
You benefit from my mistake.
I actually thought the LLM didn't give axes in the list.
And so I was like, well, I guess the LLM has crushed you.
And then I went to go read the list.
And they're like, fuck, I didn't see axes the first time.
So he didn't see axes the first time.
You got lucky.
It's told me axes are not very popular here.
Telling me that this LLM thing's a fucking everything.
When I start telling it, make fucking mistakes.
Is it the one who gave the discounted sleep scroll?
Huh?
Did it give the discounted sleep scroll earlier?
Uh, that was the random mom.
Okay.
Yeah, so that was random.
What I did is I had to generate, um, I,
I had to create me a list of 20 items and every one I gave five spells.
So then we rolled 1d20.
Those are the five that are on, that are available for the day.
Yeah.
Gotcha.
And then I had you roll another 1d20, which gave me another list.
Then 1d6, which would then find me a spell on that list.
Gotcha.
So that basically the five got one list and then the other five went, okay, this is out of this list is the one that's the discount.
So it was totally, totally random.
Yeah.
All right, Apothecary is in the library.
Yes.
And let me pull this up.
And it did that by accessing the API.
So it basically pulled these spells from the API.
Oh, and did the spell shop have a name?
Because you called what the weapon shop was the Anvil and Ore. Yeah, they all have names.
um the apothecary is Hester oh that's like that looks like her name not the shop yeah that sounds like a name oh willow grass apothecary willow grass apothecary and what was selisa shop's name silver bridge oh silver bridge okay
Oh, Don Quill, Silver Bridge.
Don Quill, are they the same?
Don Quills are the last name.
Yep, so Silver Bridge was the name of the show.
Silver Bridge, Arcana.
Okay.
Thank you.
Here you go next.
Willowgrass.
Willowgrass Apothecary.
Okay.
Let's see.
Practical alchemist healer who treats half the middle tiers
Minion mercenaries and keeps a private notebook of things that should not be brewing in anyone's cellar.
That makes sense.
A cells.
What is that word?
Hortus.
Hortus.
What's a Hortus?
It's like a bandaid, like a pack of antiseptic stuff that you kind of put on
Basically, it's ye oldie band-aid.
Some herbs, antidotes, basic healing, droughts, when stocked, soaps, salves, incenses, remedies for damp coughs and sailor rash, services, discreet consultation, poisoning triage,
And ingredient appraisals.
Out of character.
Look at the soups.
Out of character, the treatment for sailor rash.
It's oranges.
Is it scurvy?
Is it scurvy?
Yep.
Do you want to see some of the abandoned things they might have?
Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
Let's see if we're able to look at soaps.
They have soaps.
Do you want soap?
Yep.
Oh, yes.
Um, this is a guy.
I'm going to need, I'm going to need, um... Oh, yes.
We saw soaps.
I'm going to need something, uh, specialty for hair.
Uh, laundry.
Body wash, of course.
Of course.
We have a kit for you.
She pulls out a beautifully orienting of kits.
50 gold.
Um, just see, I'm aware that this is really a pretty common ingredient.
This is famous made from the finest of, of would you like to see the quality that I can make myself?
Wait,
I see you enough on these lands.
This stuff is really precious here.
I hardly, more than, hmm.
You can vote for some Asian.
I'm not a natural negotiator for Sabriel and me, but.
Well, you can vote your insight.
Uh, I think insight.
Vote your insight.
Yeah.
I think it's just because you came out sounding like a high tiny noble, so they're overcharging you.
I mean, that's fair.
No!
Uh, 21.
Yes!
And you know.
And with such a high role, you can choose how you call her out of her bullshit.
So Sabriel's not a negotiator for things.
They're not trying to get a deal, but they're very immediately aware that the product put in front of them
This is not a 50 gold product.
Yeah, no.
Not at all.
Insight, so she just looked at you and be like, this person doesn't know, money, rich.
She'd just be, what's the word, the theme of this game, racist.
Stereotyping, she's stereotyping, one step away.
I don't think my business has worked.
No, we don't have to do that.
It's a good product.
It's mediocre at best.
Okay, obviously there's no fool in you.
Only the actual quality of it.
If you're going to be spending your time with humans, maybe you should think about how you're dressing.
I know it's a little understated,
I'm just saying you're making a bit of a loud statement.
It's one gold.
She walks back around the counter.
Throw in that herbal sachet and I'll give you an extra gold.
Deal.
She goes over, takes the extra sachet, puts it together, wraps it up beautifully.
A bit annoyed to be called out, but very polite about it.
I thought you just washed clothes in water.
Can you throw in an extra couple of basic lathering soaps?
I'm going to teach someone something.
Absolutely.
It looks like she needs it.
Yes, we would like to see the list of random stuff, Joe.
I've never bought soap before.
We just make it at home.
I'm not very passionate.
We wouldn't make it at home.
Isn't it just like that?
Palo?
It's like mostly just palo.
No, it's not.
It is.
It's mostly just palo.
Don't you just be very interested in particular soaps?
Herbalism is a
Important skill.
I know how to make soap.
I just never thought to use it on clothes.
Roll me a 1d20.
For what item she has.
Oh, this is the goofy apothecary items.
He is... 7.
7.
We are going to get a... She has Chalk of Warding, 10 sticks.
Lines grow faintly good for don't cross marks, chalks and warding.
Antitoxin limited, one dose carefully labeled with the date and batch mark.
Alchemist fire, small flasks for spiders and deseparation?
Oh, desperation.
I love that, for spiders and desperation.
Labeled.
This would have been a great place to stop before we went to the lumber mill.
Spiders.
Smoke pellets.
Why do we need that?
We have me.
You know, it seems like there's just a spider problem in the area because it does seem to be, it's in the anti-eratophobic section that they have.
Alcarum is fire.
I always said that.
Smoke pellets, too.
Film size makes dense, acidic smoke for a moment.
And then we have soot-leaf lozenges?
Lozenges?
Lozenges.
Advantage on the next performance of I'm Not Coughing.
They're cough drops.
Yeah, I got it.
Sorry, it took me a moment.
That was a very interesting way to say they're cough drops.
Do they have anything like healing potions here?
Or the ingredients to make them?
Whoa, perception check.
Five.
I would say it was very easy.
You do see healing potions.
You see a limited patch behind her that are already basically has a label that says, do not sell.
Basically somebody's ordered them water them.
There's about 20.
Oh jeez I know you have I Mean you haven't made great friends yet.
You could always try for making friends with her.
I'm gonna nudge Sabra.
Oh, well your persuasion I
See if you made friends with her.
If that little change made her like, oh yeah, you're not a ditsy little bum.
I may not be a ditsy little bum, but I know certain things.
I know the world.
You come see my soap.
I know my soap box.
I know my soap box.
18.
Oh.
Oh, that was a D12 that I rolled.
Hang on one second.
D12?
You rolled too small a dice.
Yeah, I did.
Did you get a natural D12 on a D12?
A natural 12 on D12?
Yeah.
And now you go to 17?
Yeah.
She is really friendly with you.
Okay.
So you are, do you first, at this friend level, it has to be two ways, meaning that
she would only, you'd only be able to be that level of friendly with her.
If you also see her as a friend.
I liked that she did come down in price.
And then, um, when we both discussed teaching other people, the value of soap had that moment.
So yes, I would, I would see their potential for friendliness.
Okay.
So you are.
Reciprocating.
Good friends right off.
She wants to have tea with you later, not romantically.
Like she just wants to like, just have tea.
Just have tea.
Tea sounds great.
And which is by the way, the first human you have met that is not like, you know, broken.
Also, I haven't taken my veil off this whole time.
Even if you do, I'm going to say she is just, she's just past the instant awe.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think maybe she owns a shop, she's in her older ages, you know.
It could be the age thing.
I think it's the age thing, that she had her romance.
Like, she's past all of that.
Like, you know.
I think that's exactly it.
I like it.
Yeah.
What's her name?
Hesta?
Hesta.
Oh, they're having a lot of fun.
He didn't give me, he didn't give me the thingy.
Give me the thingy so I know how to pronounce this as a freaking moar.
Brayvon.
Brayvon.
Man, that even hard.
The last syllable is V-A-Y-N. V-A-Y-N?
V-A-Y-N. Vane?
Vane.
So it's bra.
It's an upside-down E!
What the fuck?
Oh, they have R. Braavon.
Braavon.
Braavon?
This is Hesta.
Okay.
Hesta Braavon.
What the fuck?
She's a human!
I'm not trying.
Yeah.
Goddamn human.
This like sounds open.
Alright.
Alright, well I'll put it in the Discord for all of you.
Okay.
I'm friends with the apothecary, we're gonna have tea later.
I'm gonna nudge you and point out the, um, the potions behind the counter.
Oh, um... Oh, Briarvane.
Briar... okay.
Briarvane.
Briarvane.
Oh, okay, that's not so bad.
Just make me feel like an idiot.
It's fine, I know I can't spell...
I don't feel like an idiot.
I don't know I'm an idiot.
Yeah, it's Briarvane.
Briarvane.
That's not so bad.
That's still Briarvane, yeah.
Oh, Vane!
Oh, is there?
No, I didn't see it as a separate bird.
I will say, Vane, very unusual suffix for humans, but sure, we'll go with it.
Maybe she's not a human.
What's the potion ordering policy?
You want a free order?
It's like a two-week waiting period.
Oh, we just happen to see...
the stock behind and then you're backed up.
She looks at it, yes I am very behind.
You don't understand the waiting period, it's right there in the white we have to wait.
Is that someone already paid for the stock?
Oh Darry, there's a line of people.
That said, if you want to help me get more ingredients.
You know, that?
Where do you get the ingredients?
What makes a potion a pot of?
What makes potions?
What goes into potions, maybe?
Because what makes potions is an apothecary.
No, well, the interesting thing is I think we may be able to help you out quite a bit.
We have acquired ingredients, but both myself and my friend Marwin have the capacity for basic potions making.
We didn't know how to make them, you know.
So we could help you catch up on your stock if you were able to squeeze us in the line of it.
Oh, I know exactly what's going on.
It's not about helping making it.
You see, there is a union on the distilled alcohols that comes from Merrill Gate.
Like, it needs a certain level of purity.
And you see, they aren't straight great now.
So I need
either to that strike to end or to get those supplies.
If you could just get the alcohol and you can leave the gold on the crate, I'm sure they'll understand.
Either way, I don't care how you do it.
We need the distilled alcohol from those ships.
And if you're able to get that for me, I'll block your eye.
They're on the docks right now?
They're on the docks right now.
They're striking like goddamn idiots.
Unbelievable.
Don't they know that people need healing potions?
It's affecting business.
You'd think the government would get their shit together and get people out there, but the government's just too busy changing policies.
And I, Ventures, wish I appreciate you all here to come to do their job
And with you all here, they still can't make time to go take care of the strikes.
Just pay them more.
It seems like you have a very inefficient system.
You're telling me.
Very inefficient.
You should, uh, you should go around it for us.
No.
So if you want to get me to seal our alcohols, to seal our alcohol, I will...
Bump you up in the list immediately.
Is that for us taking a side trip?
I'm okay with this.
We can negotiate with ship people.
Or take it.
How much is the payment for the ship?
Look, if you end the strike I can just go down there and I dock myself and buy it.
Okay?
No problems.
Then you can just pay for the potion for the normal price.
And I'll give you a discount.
However, if you can't end the strike, then you can't buy it.
At that point, I'm not going to say how you acquire it.
I'm only going to leave five gold per bottle, because that's the going rate.
So fair is fair.
You don't get caught.
And of course, if you find a third option, just don't tell me how you did it, OK?
Do you want to see what we can do there?
There's no reason not to at least look and ask.
Like, see if there's a solution we can find.
I just have to go to the library today.
Who are they straightening?
We're going to have to find them.
I don't know what this means either.
She gets really close to you for a moment.
Yes.
Split ends.
She throws the actual bottle into your basket and hands it to you.
You just feel very insulted.
I'm the worst.
She's not wrong.
Grind from, you know, appearance is relative.
Yeah, I'm very confused here.
So we're gonna get into a fight.
No.
We're breaking up a fight.
Something about striking.
We're not following.
Clearly it means something that is not hinting?
I've very limited exposure to this type of behavior, but I mean someone's being told to do something and they're refusing to do it.
And I simply don't understand how that could possibly happen, but there it is.
Oh.
Things just got complicated because usually there is a reason when you refuse to do something.
There probably is, but- I mean that would be unheard of.
Right.
You just do whatever people tell you to?
We do what the Veiled Crown tells us to.
Before we leave here, there's actually something I do need.
I guess we do what the Warlord tells us to.
Could I drop 20 gold and incense and certain components in case
liquor ever goes away and I need to bring him back.
Liquor?
Familiar.
Familiar.
I need familiar making materials in case something ever happens.
You've mentioned incense in the list.
It is, yeah.
That is the classic material for making familiars.
Yeah, you have incense.
So I will stock up on some of that.
Excellent.
Okay, let us find out why the alcohol people are not selling alcohol.
She goes, and I just like to imagine, she goes ten gold, and then you give her a luck.
Oh, I said, I'm sorry.
You know, she gives you the reasonable price, and then you give her that luck.
You start to learn that this is just...
This city likes to overcharge people.
It is, yeah.
A lot.
Well, Kristy did put it best.
She picked an interesting campaign not to have persuasion.
Yep.
Should've gone with the Bard Council!
To be late now!
To be fair, this is a very unusual game for me.
This is also Arden... Ardenford.
It may not be that way everywhere.
That's true.
Where do you go next?
It will be that way in Meadowgate.
From what I've heard.
I'm not allowed.
So we're done shopping, I guess, for now.
Do we want to go try to resolve the...
So there's the strike, and then there's the library.
Yes.
Pascar?
Which would you prefer?
I would prefer the ships.
But at the same time, a point was raised about
researching at the library and learning useful things about the ancient ruins and stuff.
And I am not an expert on ancient ruins, but I kind of need to do this job.
So if someone would like to read books.
I'm more interested in the library personally.
What Hesta was describing sounds more like it would require stealing.
It's either negotiating, solving a problem, or dealing.
Or a third option.
Or a third option.
But she doesn't want to know.
Yeah.
However she gets it, I don't think she cares.
I don't think theft is going to be our way of things.
We just don't have those skill sets, nor do I feel especially comfortable with it.
You didn't see me sneaking up on the spider.
Until the web got me.
I was doing great.
She's not wrong.
Potions are a vitally important service.
Not everyone can heal.
True.
Or even make them.
But we're talking about...
This is a large group, yes, because they mentioned Marrowgate.
Perhaps we find out why they're doing these things before we resort to theft.
I don't really care.
I'm curious to know what the strike's about, in case we could resolve it.
Well, we could check it out, then, if you would like.
Because I agree, the potions will be important, and if it helps us secure some, then not everybody can heal.
If something happens to you, what are we supposed to do to help you?
And maybe they're refusing to do the selling because they're sea monsters and we need to slay them, and then they will pay us.
I know, it's not a realistic outcome.
But I'm really looking for something to hit.
She hasn't gotten to strike anything with an axe all day.
It's been very hard.
Alright, well, let's check it out.
Maybe if you're lucky you'll get another fist fight.
I'll take it.
We'll see if we can resolve the situation on the docks and then no more delays, we'll go to the library after that.
Yeah, I'll see.
No, we need to.
So boring.
Books are fascinating, Buster.
Books are useful.
I wouldn't say fascinated.
Alright, so we're going to the docks, Joe.
Okay.
To see about the Union.
I'm sure getting involved with the Marrowgate Union won't be
Complicated or bad at all.
I'm just sad Stone's not here.
Yeah, me too.
Yeah, he would be perfect for this.
Either path.
Mm-hmm.
I mean, there's a tiefling in there.
Okay, so you come to the docks.
He's here, the seagull's seagull.
I don't think I ca-caw.
No.
Actually, I want to try something.
As we're heading down, when the ravens are not in immediate sight, the crow, I want to Thaumaturgy.
It's ca-caw right behind Marwin.
Oh.
Does it mess with her?
Yeah.
Oh my goodness.
So this is an interesting question of how accurate do you get it?
I don't know that I can replicate its sound, but I can make a cacaw.
You can make a crow sound.
So here's what I'm going to propose, Nicole.
Do you want to make a deception check versus like my insight or something?
Yes.
Let the dice decide.
Let the dice decide.
I'm gonna use guidance.
Ah, six.
So there's that moment where you see Marwin's body tenses up for a moment, and then she sort of realizes, okay, that's not my crow.
Probably because looking ahead she sees the crow is still in front of her, as it's always been.
She'll continue walking up.
I thought you had that one.
Every time I see the laptop, I've been glancing over it, like, you know, no matter where the laptop's been, I keep looking at the sticker.
It's pretty neat.
It stopped recording when I picked up the phone.
That makes so much sense.
How integrated Mac's stuff is sometimes blows my mind.
But that makes sense.
If I'm talking on the phone, I don't want to record recording that without my knowledge.
In some states, it would be illegal, in fact.
Yeah, you have to have informed consent to record conversations in some states.
I think California is one of them.
In some states it needs to be a two-way.
Yeah, yeah, in some states both parties have to consent, and in some states only one.
Which is weird, because that means you couldn't record somebody without them knowing and that's okay, but as long as you were okay with it, it's weird.
Yeah, that basically what that means that you can't what it's saying is that you can some rando can't be outside of that conversation like the phone company or something can't just be recorded.
Yeah.
Yeah, because neither party's aware.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And that's really, I think that's basically saying, if the cops are recording you and they don't have a warrant, they can't use it because without that law,
They could absolutely be in on all your conversations.
Yeah.
I think at minimum everywhere has that law.
Yeah.
That's the minimum.
The question is, is it a two-way?
Do both parties have to consent?
Which I believe Pennsylvania is one that has two-way.
It is.
Okay.
Where do you go now?
We're going to the docks to check out the strike.
Yeah.
See what that's all about and if there is a solution that can be resolved by adventurers or if there's a solution that can be resolved by lawyers.
In which case, we find either a different solution or leave them to their fate.
Because lawyering is not that hard.
We'll just check in on the situation.
We don't know if we'll be able to solve it.
We're going to try.
Get information.
OK. You come there, and you see a picket line.
You see sailors with their signs.
Man, they probably don't have signs back in those days.
I don't know, why not?
You can make a sign.
Well, they don't have poster board.
What do they put in wood?
Wood.
Oh.
Joe.
Seems very inefficient, but.
You're right, it's heavier, but also they're probably a lot stronger back then.
Also, like, A, composite wood is actually very old.
Like, pressed composite wood is very old.
And they were lumber, they'd walk on ships.
So yeah, they have signs.
And they're chanting that they want better sales with writing on it.
Yeah, that could be banners.
Stick, banner, stick on the other end.
And they're doing like a little circle and they're mostly human.
And they're basically chanting, we want better pay.
We want better pay.
So ritual.
We want better pay.
I think they want better pay.
And you see a few guards there, monitoring the situation.
I don't think like SWAT level or like police line.
You see a few guards and like one guard is literally just leaning against the post like they're seeing here.
I'm assigned here, but nothing's happening.
This is just a job.
Yeah.
They don't see if you're interested in solving anything.
There's no like politician here.
No, no movement.
You see the ship.
You know what ship that at least the ships you presume the the soda alcohol is on.
I guess you need the, I guess it depends on what angle you go.
I have no solution for this.
So nothing more than the, what, what the apothecary already told you.
So, that's a whole group there could, you know what?
This is pretty easy, right?
Let's warm it up.
I don't think this is pretty easy, Marwin.
So, Marwin will start to approach the crowd.
Sure, let's see where this goes.
I don't think we're ready for this scenario.
No?
No.
But how do we know they want better pay?
Should we find out what they're being paid now and figure out?
How do you determine what better pay is?
More than they're making now?
No, we'll want adventurers thinking that they can have a political effect.
Yeah, I don't think we have the clout to deal with this.
I mean, hmm.
This isn't going to be solved with convincing them to be happy with what they make in life.
I don't mean that, but if they're being paid some amount, their goal is just to get more.
Whoa, perception check.
Six!
I see it.
You can melt that simple.
They're the only one who's ever going to be passing perception checks, just to be clear.
You can roll one if you like.
It's optional.
I'm great in investigation.
I'm so-so at perception.
I'm better than Bazzar.
21.
Oh, gosh.
Behind Christine.
Oh, Merlin.
What's your character's name?
Merlin.
Merlin.
You see the quote take out a seagull, just nodulantly.
It goes off out, and then you don't really see what
happens beyond that, but you're just talking, and so you just, you know it, at this point you can identify the quail.
You know that quail at this point, and you just see its eagle flying, and it just comes down, takes it out, and it just spirals out, and then you don't know what happens beyond that.
But it's just something.
It's not that simple.
Do you serve a vicious goddess?
Excuse me?
Your crow just preyed upon...
I kind of look over my shoulder.
Your crow just preyed upon a seagull.
I don't know if that was a message or...
Let's go to the library.
And Marwyn turns and immediately starts to lean.
I am fine with the pot comp.
Does any of you think this one allowed?
Yeah, we can't deal with this right now, no.
Not our skill set.
Yeah.
We don't have the resources to tackle that problem today.
And it's not like the most pivotal motivation, because like it'd be nice to have young potions.
My motivation was more to fix a problem for a new friend.
Seagulls are bigger than crows, I don't think.
I believe so, yeah.
They're certainly not smaller.
They might be about the same size, but they might be bigger.
It was kind of impressive.
Just this little crow, big seagull.
Yeah, I think they are a little bigger.
They are bigger.
Yeah, uh, Marwin's gonna walk fast, a little, a little fast until we're away from where the seagulls are.
What?
What?
I'm curious what your working theory is about this clown.
It's more the question of what's my working theory about the seagull.
The seagull, okay.
Oh yeah, that's a good point.
Yeah.
Marwin's pretty confident in terms of what the crow's here to do.
Okay.
But that's more the thing.
It's when we're away from the seagulls that Marwin will start to slow down.
Okay, so to the Concordance Library.
Maybe there's a book monster in Corbyn's library.
So in Corbyn's library you see a... You see what looks like a wizard at the front door.
Like in front of it?
Yeah.
Like a statue or a wizard?
Not like a wizard.
He straight up looks like a wizard.
He had everything?
Not that extreme.
But you can stereotype him like that.
Like he has the robes, he has a book.
It looks fancy to some degree.
Is this a public library?
Do you say that in air shot?
I don't know anything about libraries.
Yeah, we can ask.
Is this a public library?
Yes, for casters.
Wizards.
Only arcane?
Yes, of course.
Oh, I thought
That's not all we're welcome here.
Yeah, that's all.
This is a welcome.
I need to find a wizard.
Well, usually... What's up with spell book?
You look about from this one.
Oh, you can be a member?
I just want to become a member.
Usually a councilman gives you a membership.
We can't allow anyone in because then while we've had
Books get stolen.
So ever since we've lost a few books and there's not enough guards to prevent theft, members and with a lot of negotiation at the councils, we convinced them that wizards could be trusted.
He smiles, almost proud that they were able to make an exception.
This system of government does not work.
Yes.
You're getting the theme.
That's very good.
Okay, so a group talk here.
I still would like to check out the library and I might be able to get in.
By the way, you want me to check it out too?
Is there anything I might be able to look up for you or help with?
Or do we want to just abandon this all together and I can come back sometime on my own?
If they'll let you in, you should go.
What are you two gonna do?
I am maybe going to have a conversation with Sabriel about a chilling realization that I may have just had.
Just laying all of our mess covers.
What?
Go ahead.
Okay, is there anything you want me to look up for you?
Can you find out what information they have about the oldest religions in the world?
Okay
I will see what I can learn.
And see you guys back at the wayward compass later.
And obviously, I assume you're also researching ancients.
Yes.
I would like to know as much as you find out about them.
Yeah, I'm interested in ancients and a few other things.
OK.
And in particular, have there ever been any fallen gods?
Okay.
I will see what I can find out.
It seems to be the way of things.
Thanks a lot.
He opens it.
He looks at it really weird.
It kind of like flips through another one.
I can demonstrate if that's necessary.
You taught you magic.
This isn't from any arcane school I know of.
Is this sufficient?
Yes.
You may go in per the... Do you call it an ordinance?
No.
When you have like a policy.
Policy.
For the policy, the person inside will give you a library card.
Make it a little smoother next time.
Thank you.
I will put my book away and head inside.
Did you see that he looked behind him?
locked on her walking, like, not sure what she is.
I'm gonna set the ground trembling.
Breathe in.
Not your trembles.
Oh, to scare him?
To scare him.
He does get weirded out.
And then his attention goes back on the two of you while he tries to, like,
It doesn't last long, right?
No, it's just Thaumaturgy.
I just rumble the earth a little bit under his feet.
Did you fulfill that?
What?
Bazgar honestly doesn't know what's going on, so he's just confused.
He just looks unsettled and uncomfortable.
Messy with people.
Why don't we go grab a coffee?
I do not know what that is, but I would love to.
I assume there's going to be like
some square across from the library and we can go to like a cafe, cafe, cafe, cafe.
So do you want to start with your conversation or see what I can learn in the library?
I'm happy to start.
Chilling revelation.
Um, Sabriel, do you know of the Pentarch, of course, the treaty side between the here and the Imperium?
Um, so about that, Joe, I actually have a question.
Yeah.
Uh, when it came to like the big treaty recently, were we invited?
Cause I don't know.
Like, I don't know if we were there at all.
Um, you know of them, but you weren't there.
Would you know about them?
I've heard, I've heard of them.
Yes.
I was hoping you might know what the text was, what they said.
Like, specifically.
Because I'm starting to wonder if maybe this... Maybe I'm paranoid.
But if this, like, really bad government is like...
Okay, this does sound crazy, this sounds paranoid, but... Could the Imperium, like, have written down you have to have crappy government in the after-war or something?
I've never read the...
Actually, we would have had copies of the text, I'm sure.
Yeah, you would have.
But you would have to roll something to know.
Yeah, I'm going to try.
Probably history.
I am not smart.
It was a really big event.
I'm going to try to remember.
We're going to make this very easy.
You just got a low five.
I'm going to try to remember, Vazgar.
Give me a moment.
OK, yeah.
I don't remember.
Yeah, you remember very detailed.
Yes, I spent a few afternoons reviewing that text.
We were not participants in the discussions, but what are the points that I can recall?
Basically, how far back did
Arden Haven's system of government.
Is this something that came up in the aftermath of the Accords?
Is this a result of the Accords?
Did the Imperium have them sign a document that helped restructure their government in some way?
Not at all.
No, this is just the natural phenomenon of this particular blend of...
But it's so bad!
Like how could it, how did the Imperium not wash over these people in days?
The Imperium reached a stopping point as far as I can understand.
You can go with history.
You wanna go with history?
Yeah, I'm gonna try to remember a little bit more.
This one's harder because it's a hard check.
It's gonna be a 15 because it happened.
It's not, it's...
specific and it wasn't written down in like the courts.
Yeah.
So verbal things I'm going to be much shakier on.
So this is something that you've heard.
Yeah.
Um, so that would be 14, 13.
You didn't get a clear success, but you didn't fail completely.
You know, something.
Well, I know the, what the imperium is.
Here's what we'll do.
I got it.
You don't know the exact history, but you know bureaucracy.
I do know bureaucracy.
And you can tell that the city has these different, all across it as you've been traveling, these different government buildings.
And each of them are a mini version of my government.
No.
No.
You see them as a... You know what a government building looks like.
You know the operations look like.
And you can see that this is many different councils acting independently as one.
It's an abundance of opinion, Fazgar.
Abundance of opinion is not a bad thing.
When it comes to operations, it can be.
They have no unifying voice.
You just... You just have an election and then the council votes and you do the thing.
You don't need lots of councils for everything.
You just have one.
And one might argue that an entire council is irrelevant if you have one strong opinion.
I do not know that I like that.
I don't think they would like that.
I had not considered that.
I should be more mindful.
But I don't believe that has anything to do with the Imperium.
The Imperium's issues around resounding the war I think is entirely separate from how this place has come to be.
Or at least different.
Well, they need to be prepared because the Imperium is going to come back.
Do you think so?
Yes, without any hesitation, yes.
I don't know when, they've been preparing for a very long time.
Use library, where's next?
Use library.
Library.
So, Concordance Library, Marwa was not expecting it to be exclusive to Wizards.
That was a surprise to her as much as I think everybody else.
I know the idea is that the information there is open to all.
Yes, with library cards.
Oh right, I need to get a library card.
And they give you one.
And you also notice it's not restricted to wizards.
They've been having books stolen.
You have to be a member.
You have to be a member.
is that wizards get a free pass because the wizard community said that wizards outside of themselves should be also trusted.
Okay, interesting.
Basically the wizards here, what's the word we represent?
The wizards wanted it to be free and open for everybody, right?
The council of councils
wanted to stop having theft happen.
It's kind of what it was explained, but you get a little bit more, I imagine that you get a little bit more detail when you're in there and it gets explained.
And so a compromise was made that like, Hey, we, if citizens kind of library cards, we want to issue them through a process that we can track, you know, make sure things don't get stolen.
You could go apply for one.
but you're probably by time you get it based on how everything else is happening in this government, uh, it'd be a month or two.
And so the wizards, like we, we are accountable for other wizards.
And so the wizards are basically the wizard guild.
I want to call it a guild, but the wizard community here, like one of ours still from the books, we'll pay for it.
We will, we will choke up the money because we, we are, we look out for ourselves.
Yeah.
And generally if you have a wizard, they're going to be more respectful of the written word because it's literally core to what the hell you do.
Exactly.
Yeah.
And so the wizards are able to champion for other spell casters outside of the city.
And that's why they have that exception.
Not so much that the wizards are guarding this.
Interesting.
Is the library like packed with spell casters?
Is there a whole bunch of us here or is it
Relatively the library is huge and Because of the scale it's sparse You see wizards, but you see normal people to citizens people with found library cards Okay, the library card is just basically there's a small magical spell put on it so that they know that it belongs to you It's a very simple enchant.
You think that with some tampering you could probably hack it, but it would be a effort to
Um, and based on how closely the person looks at the library card to figure it out, it's kind of like picking a fake ID.
It's manageable.
Yep.
Basically handed me my wizard license.
Yeah.
Yeah.
In this case, it's not a wizard license.
It's just a library card.
Anyone can have one.
Yeah.
Well, uh, Marvin's going to spend probably a considerable amount of time here because there's a lot of topics.
She wants to look up, plus I need to do Sabriel's research for them as well.
So what we're gonna do is that time is limited.
So we're going to roll a luck dice, divide in half, and whatever number you get is minimum two.
So we will all want to set two.
Is how many?
Things you can research in the time that you have without saying that we're gonna camp here.
Okay.
All right.
Gosh, so many things.
Let's find out.
Six.
I think that's three.
All right.
Maximum.
All right.
I'm gonna go ahead.
Here's how Marvin's gonna divide it up for the day.
I'm going to do one thing for the group, one thing for Sabriel, and one thing for myself.
So the first thing I'm going to be looking into is any information on the ancients, who they were, what they were like, basically anything that scholars happen to know.
You need to be a little bit more precise.
Are they lizard people?
I can answer that.
That's not part of the role.
Yeah.
I will just tell you very quickly.
You start looking and you're feeling frustrated.
Yes.
Enabling wizard, uh, spelled somebody and they look at you funny.
Like, no one knows what basically ancient for you.
No one knows.
No one knows.
I don't think that they were else.
The humans think that they were humans dwarves think that they were else.
They were definitely lizard people.
Because, get this, the dwarfs think that because, and I am quoting a particular dwarf, they'd still be around if they were dwarfs.
But truly there'd be some piece of artwork that would remain or some sign.
Interesting.
Okay.
So that was not one of my three?
That was a freebie.
Okay.
It's almost, it's, you know, I'm not, I'm not going to give you, I'm not going to take the point for a frustrating response.
All right.
I sort of agree with the dwarfs.
I was going to be pretty stuck up.
Probably got themselves killed.
I mean, I feel like it's a very limited perspective.
Probably going a little too far with the magic.
Is that nice?
I don't think Jules can cast magic.
They definitely can.
Have you ever seen a Jule cast magic?
Yes.
Really?
I'm in the clock.
I'll talk to you later.
Okay.
In that case then, I'm going to dig a little bit more into the specific ruins of Ardenford, the ones that are around.
We have that very specific ruin that we pointed out to.
We do, but I'm curious about kind of high level ones out there.
Okay, yeah, broad strokes.
So basically, I'm going to go look for probably the actual ruin catalog that Elarion puts together to find out what are high scope
What are the different ruin sites?
There's a ruin that he had you to, which is, it's a, I don't know if it's Wade.
It's a very well-explored ruin.
You're unlikely to find anything there.
Low risk, low reward.
It is a common place for adventurers to... To cut their teeth.
to get their first start.
Get in, get experience, learn how this works, and then maybe later go somewhere profitable.
It is more than just rebel.
You are going under earth.
It's just nothing like anything else.
The other room, there's one up above the mountain.
The part that really outlines here is that once you get into the main entrance, there is a pit that
descends deep into the mountain to get into the actual body of the ruins.
It is not very well explored.
Not many adventurers come back.
How to get down giant elevator shaft?
Problem one.
Released.
Problem two.
Dragon monster.
There's always a dragon monster.
I would say that one's not like, it's not as scary as that.
I think you'll put it probably what it says is that
It puts softly that it's known to take adventurers' lives and adventurers rarely come in the way they came out.
Okay.
Locationally?
Yeah.
Okay.
Not body-dismorphically.
You're right, you're right.
In my world, in my world, somebody got burned in the goo.
These things happen.
I really like that.
I'm checking out that scroll later.
Okay.
What else you got?
Um, then there's the, they're all women.
The entire city's built on ruins and there are ruins that are of interest, but they're not accessible and it does document some of them.
Um, the problem is just accessing them.
Yeah, they're not part of the reclamation act.
Yeah.
Okay.
Let me think.
It also locates different regions.
Most of these are towards the valley and the forest just because generally the forest hides a lot of ruins.
And so the ruins out in the fields, they're just more explored because you can find them easier.
And so it's kind of, you see there are an option there, but it's like you're going to get to the ruins and then you're going to travel in the ruins for a good day before you find something of interest.
And so you kind of learn that, okay, if I go out in the fields, I'm not going to really get anywhere interesting unless I really commit to going into the ruins.
And it talks about the problem there of getting lost because of just how far you need to go.
Which one thing you're gaining is that it would appear that there are just ancient ruins.
Like the ancient ruins is just seemingly to exist everywhere underground.
Like, it's everywhere here.
Everywhere.
Okay.
Interesting.
Anything else before we take a break for actual midnight here?
I think she had a question.
Yeah, don't you get to pick a third topic?
I get two more topics, but we're at 1156.
We want to take a pause because midnight's about
Well, we should try to finish up the research, if we can.
I mean, I don't celebrate New Year's like that.
Okay.
I usually, you know...
I just acknowledge it.
We're gonna do the rest of the thing or something like that, so...
It's okay.
I appreciate the idea.
If you want to, I support you.
I'm just doing the thing.
Give us your next question.
The next one is, I want to research for Sabriel what's the world's oldest religion.
You come to a section and you spot a wizard dwarf.
You don't think dwarves can do this magic?
Three aisles down?
And you, like, you gotta, like, imagine you just gotta, like, really, like, you have a wizard dwarf here, and your magic causes it to look like... Is something wrong with my beard?
No, just, I... Somebody in another hole was being racist earlier.
It happens, it's alright.
You guys back to re-steering.
Yeah.
Well, you're, I think this is religion, but you're in a library.
It's a religion with an advantage, but exactly what are you looking for?
I'm trying to figure out what the oldest religion in the world is.
That's what Sabre asked for.
The oldest religion.
Yeah, what's a no about, I guess, oldest religions in the world, but I... First, well...
I don't know much about it.
Luck.
Two.
Two.
Considering the fact I know very little about religions.
I'm thinking... Yeah, go ahead and roll.
Okay.
My rolling what?
Investigation?
Or religion, we said.
It's religion.
You can roll investigation too, actually.
The results will... You have to pick one because you only have so much time.
The results are going to be radically different.
I'm looking, I'm going to go with investigations.
I, Marwin's base point is very low for understanding.
I'm going to try to do the best for my new friend.
Uh, that'll be a 19.
19.
You find a book in the library that is of some sort of
You don't know where it's from.
It's not in the catalog.
You think it must've been forgotten, but it is something related to religion.
You know that.
And when you open it up, the pages are blank.
I will take a small amount of time.
Actually,
I didn't see no sign about my casting spells.
The book is beautifully adorned.
Just out of curiosity here, Marwa will dig around in her bag, take out a mothwing, and swallow it, and will say, eyes I wear are not enough, lend me yours, show what hides, and I will cast a magic, and I will see if the book is magical.
The book is magical.
What school of magic emanates from it?
Well, if you want to let Joe work a little bit, we can get the Larvesta.
It's midnight, guys.
I meant you missed it now.
You missed it.
Happy New Year.
Happy New Year.
Larvesta.
Kyle, this started a Year of the Fighter Discord.
That's pretty funny.
Oh, is Kyle going to join us for Year of the Fighter?
I think he is.
We're trying to.
Yep.
Oh my god, cause he's got a whole thing on meal.
I think he's gonna do this.
Oh, he's including some of our other folks.
Kira and Alex are there.
Nice, cute.
He's embracing our idea.
You're the fighter.
Great, so we're switching our buddies?
Yes.
I just did.
I just did a little.
What should I name my rest of?
Minus Firebug.
his hot moth.
Oh my god, it's so slow.
Snom was the same way.
You put out, you click the thing to have it come out and just like, did my phone lag?
Every time.
It's better than the yaw mask.
The yaw mask was very slow.
Oh my god, it even seemed more impressive.
Kyle's still awake at midnight.
I'm guessing you took a nap at some point today.
I'm not sure when I ended up with 189, uh, planet berries.
Okay, let me look at this, um, discord that people are talking about if I am in it.
Oh, wow.
For the record, I'm starting with 56 Larvesta candies.
Eight.
Oh, wow, you got a lot.
Ten.
Yeah.
You're jealous, I know.
Jeff, I think you might end up being last two of them all.
Go Larvesta.
Nicole's so mean to me.
Let's see, Kyle sent me a discord year of the fighter.
You know, we absolutely have to have a combat before, and we got a bad.
Wait, what?
I don't know, but we need one.
I need to have the first year of the fighter fight.
It's important to me.
Okay, so what do you, what can you tell?
from the magic, do you say if it is or isn't?
I can tell, I know it's whether it's magic or not and then there's eight schools of magic in Dungeons and Dragons.
Abjurations like defense of magic, wards, things like that.
Conjurations like summoning things or teleportation, divinations, information, gathering spells, enchantments, mind controller, altering, evocations, blowing shit up.
or creating energy.
Transmutation is changing energy or changing forms like shape-shifting and such.
Illusion is illusion.
Necromancy you know.
But there's eight schools and I can identify which school of magic it would be.
So example if there's something that's hiding the information it would be abjuration.
Or illusion or something like that, yeah.
So I'm trying to determine, is this a enchantment to hide the information?
I know, as a DM.
Or did something happen to it and it's gone?
I'm trying to loyal up as a DM one moment.
Okay.
But I got you.
No, it's fair.
These things can sometimes come as a surprise.
Yeah.
It basically happens whenever you're first running a fifth edition.
Somebody will take Detect Magic and this question will come up and you're never ready for it.
And then you start to just bullshit it whenever it comes up.
I don't want to bullshit it.
I'm not ready for it.
I always, I just bullshit.
I bullshit to the Jeff.
Jeff, we don't, yeah, we really have Detect Magic.
Well, I need you to be consistent.
So it's not about, it's bullshitting consistently and that basically having your rules.
Yeah.
But yeah, taking time to figure out how you want to direct that is cool.
Because honestly, this is a,
path of interest I plan to continue forward, you know, for my character.
Because this is the other funny thing of I may not be able to do anything with it now.
This is where I probably should have bought that identify scroll, but I didn't.
But there might be things that can allow us to understand it later.
You said the book wasn't in the card catalog.
I'm going to keep that immediately.
I'm just going to say no one would know.
No one would know?
I feel like I've got little devils in my head.
Interesting.
I like that your witch is like the most do-goody thing.
You're the good witch.
Conjuration.
And I wanna be very clear here.
The book, it is of, clearly holy nature.
As in it's of, is what you pick up this book and you know it's not a wizard book.
You pick up this book expecting divine magic spells in it.
So,
I also may not be the right person to read it.
I can't tell you that.
I'm just telling you that it is, I don't know.
What was that?
Oh, wait, that's very right.
I do believe that humanity does get access to schools of conjuration.
There are cleric spells, divine spells, every school.
They're not usually they're classified.
It's just that it's usually not as important as it is to wizards.
Yeah I can't tell you Yeah, this is Mark Marvin slash Christine pondering right now what to do I
Because there are temptations happening right now.
I've got my little devils on my shoulder currently.
You gonna steal the book?
I mean, I'm thinking about it.
Okay.
I don't know if I'm going to or not, though.
Okay.
You know it'd be pretty easy.
Because it's not in the card catalog.
Yeah, it's not in the card catalog.
But then I'm immediately doing the thing that got everybody stealing books from this place.
It's okay.
Witches aren't real wizards.
Thank you.
Well, maybe, maybe, maybe, maybe, um, I mean, you do your thing, you know, I will also put this way.
Book doesn't belong in that category.
That's what, why it's stuck out to you while you're researching with it.
You would not have found it if you're not world investigation.
Okay.
And then there's that moment where Marwin's holding it and she's debating, and she kind of looks down one aisle, and looks down another, then there's already a lot of shit in this bag.
I'm gonna try to shove the book into the bag.
Okay.
And then I will try to nonchalantly, and I'm probably sweating.
Don't you get a third one?
I do.
Yeah.
I'm gonna go look up information about the drought.
Oh.
What do you want to know about them?
Um, I'm...
curious in some of the high level stuff, like who they were, what their deal was, and especially any information about when they stopped being.
I love that our instincts are to immediately go for whatever the big secrets are.
They, they are the, you actually get the exact date where they stopped being in the world.
which is age of conflict zero.
They mark the beginning of the age of conflict.
And the age of conflict is the previous age?
Yes.
This is the age of trade.
The previous is the age of conflict.
How long was the age of conflict?
I don't know.
So when you say that, you mean like,
year zero the drought disappear and the age of complex starts.
Yes, correct.
Now a lot of times because how ages are basically recognized by the four, it will be like several decades later they're like okay.
This is when this age started.
I have a question maybe privately I need to ask you about that.
When an age gets declared in what order, what region declares it?
It is one of the few times, so it first starts as like, it has to be a huge, significant change across the world.
A nation, any of them, can basically say, hey, I think we're on a new age.
The other regions say, I think we are great.
Let's have a talk.
They all can be.
All of us?
Yes.
Including us?
You send a representative.
Okay.
All right.
Okay.
All right.
Then that's fine.
Yeah.
So basically it gets decided and then it gets announced to us.
And then it gets announced.
All right.
So I thought perhaps someone was deciding first.
No, no, no.
Cause everyone needs to universally agree that a change was not useful.
Okay.
So a representative.
So a representative.
Yeah.
Cool.
And then they would tell us.
It won't be your history.
The way it's phrased on my timeline implied that certain someone decided when an age happens.
Yeah.
Something is a little strange there.
Ah, um,
No, it's not a great roll.
Is it?
It'll be a hard check because it's long.
It's literally remembering ages ago.
Yeah.
I'm going to use money.
You really want to know?
I really want to know.
Okay.
You think it's juicy?
Yeah, better, but not great.
Um, unfortunately that brings me to 14.
Oh my goodness.
Yeah.
It's so close.
So close.
I'm one off.
Yeah, you all went off.
You knew what I was thinking.
You know it's a heart.
I have a suspicion.
Let me put it that way.
Okay.
One of the things that I'm looking forward to as a GM, and I've only got the tiniest taste of so far, is that moment when the player asks a question about an inconsistency, or there's something that doesn't add up, and they think that I've made a mistake, and I look at them, I barely hold the straight face, and I say, yes, that is strange, isn't it?
Because
It's a deliberate inconsistency.
I love the whole, like, oh, there's something wrong and it starts to unravel.
I love that.
Oh, in this game?
Just in general.
Like, the idea of, like, from the DM seat particularly, I haven't gotten to do it much, but that, like, when the players start figuring out, oh, there's something weird or wrong or...
I know, it's just great because, like, Chrissy latched great onto, like, something's off about your, uh, your perium or your orc relationship.
So how long was the age of conflict?
The age of conflict was 327 years.
Okay.
And 119 days.
No, oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
What happened to the drought?
Yeah, what does the book say?
Not necessarily what's true.
Unfortunately, that's the same thing the public record has.
They just it's just that they just disappear.
Did this or any mention of Elder Holt involved with it?
No, just that they see still contact.
It's just gone.
What was their deal prior to the age of conquest then?
Huh?
Like the age of votes, the drought, the drought.
So we know they disappeared.
Is it like all the stereotypical drought stuff?
I know of Raiders and stuff, you know, Matron Mothers and Jack Spiders and Colts and all that stuff.
Right from the book.
Yeah.
All that stuff.
Interesting.
So at least Marwen will then start to gather the fact that these were not the best people.
Um, yes, because they basically raided the roads.
They, they, everything that is classical D'Val
I am literally taking it right from all the inspiration books.
I'm making no changes.
All of it.
They were a prominent power.
Interesting.
Any, is there any mention about where they originally came from?
Drow?
Yeah.
Are they like a break off from?
Underdark.
Erythelion?
Uh, no, none of the books have any idea where the Ethereum came from.
Okay.
All right.
So Marwin does some reading on that, just sort of indulging curiosity, filling in a few blanks.
And that is my third question.
I think you have a little bit more than that with the drought, because your question basically, here's your, here's a date and here's a public record.
You get a little bit more.
You get like one more like inquiry on the drought.
You can't go outside of the drought, but
I don't count a freebie as part of it.
Like you could have been outside the library and I would have given you everything but the date.
But now, you know, it's exactly 327 years ago.
Yeah.
I was so happy.
I made it.
I made a tool so I can convert the age dates.
Um, and you can do both way conversions and everything.
And I could just.
I was about to do the math and they're like, wait, how I just type, how long was the age of conflict?
It calls my tool, gets in that most, does a calculation, spits me out the output.
Oh my God.
All right.
I'm going to try to follow a red here and see if it might lead back to one of the things they really want to know about.
So we're dealing with all the classic drought tropes, right?
Yeah.
Classic classically drow or maybe are all obsessed and they worship loaf.
The spider queen.
Yes.
That's still the case.
Yep.
What the hell happened with her?
What do you mean?
You think that people on the surface can't worship her?
I guess the question becomes then, does her worship continue?
Yeah, does her worship continue?
Is there still mention of her?
Or is it like the thing like, when the drought went away, Loth is gone.
Loth is still in the world.
Okay.
Really interesting.
So are still cults and things like that or groups that...
It doesn't say there's cults or groups.
It's just that the god was...
There's enough reason to believe that the god is still in existence.
That whatever took the trial out did not eliminate her or even targeted her.
Interesting.
I'm not gonna say that like those cults or act of reach worship.
But it's not that it couldn't exist or yeah, like there absolutely could be spider clerics.
I would say the way that you led to that was that essentially that there were clerics who were not of that God, but was close enough, like a sister God who could still confirm the presence of that God.
Interesting.
But because the drow were no more,
There are no more active worshippers to your knowledge or to the books knowledge As being something that you can find and part of what the book references is all the worshipers that are still on the surface Stop talking about it Because it didn't however behind the throne was gone.
So yeah Yeah, lawless pull if you don't have drow behind you somewhere.
Yes because there's basically once those forces will no more and
There was a great purge of the religion.
The text kind of reads it almost like a massacre, I would say.
A lot of people died.
Some mostly bad, but some people who probably didn't deserve it.
They were very upset with the job.
I have a couple of questions that
are not being searched in the library or anything.
So they may be that we don't know.
But first, do we know how far back it was that the Ancients stopped being?
Is there an age that the Ancients ended at or something, like at the start of an age that the Ancients disappeared?
So it might be able to help you a little bit.
This is from a common knowledge point of view.
Oh, no.
But she can help you.
It's not common knowledge.
Yes, but and then people do not know how long the ancients were right and then I guess the other question that I have is the common knowledge of history does that just Start at a certain point where like just nobody knows what came before that and it just I mean not counting maybe elves But like the common knowledge it how far back does that go?
Age of Rhodes.
Okay, so it's not that far back, really.
Age of Rhodes is...
Conflict was 300 and whatever years.
The current age has gone on for a couple hundred years, and the Age of Rhodes was...
The current age is only 50 years.
The Age of Trade is very...
The war ended 127 years ago, and it took a while for the Age of Trade to really...
begin as we understand it, yeah.
It began, so the age of Rhodes began 1,027 years ago.
Okay.
Yeah, that's interesting.
That's not that far back for all of known history to go, is the thing.
Keep in mind, this isn't modern, so the history doesn't...
I mean, medieval people knew stuff about the ancient Egyptians.
They didn't know about the... All the scholars did.
Yeah.
I would say age of, they know that things are half, I'll put it this way, you said common knowledge.
Yeah, it's true, most people aren't.
Age of Rhodes is common knowledge.
Gotcha, okay.
And there were ages before then, scholars can talk to you about those.
Okay, it's not that, yeah, it's not that just history kind of was just not studied before the age of Rhodes.
It exists, it's just not common knowledge.
Okay, cool.
Yeah, the, no, because beyond that it's not common.
That makes sense.
All right.
Well.
That was a decent dent in my questions.
Yeah, it's so cool.
I will have four more things to ask in the future, but that's all I got right now.
Yes.
Just...
I don't know all that much about world history.
I know some rudimentary basics.
I know
The most recent ages, of course, I know when the war ended and Arden, Ford, and such became what they are now, roughly, I know... Actually, Basgar will list off some various random dates.
I actually am proficient in history.
He knows some things.
But... Is it... Is there just nothing known about the ancients?
This seems...
Um, from what I can tell, it's not so much that nothing is known, but that much was lost.
My people have long history.
It goes as far back as the age of reclamation.
I did not know what that is.
Wait, actually, do I know what that is?
I have history.
Your role?
This is beyond common knowledge.
Yeah, definitely beyond common knowledge.
That's a 21.
Wow, yeah.
So the Age of Reclamation came before the Age of Rhodes, and that is when it is known as the time when all the races rebuilt their civilizations.
From some catastrophe.
But I don't know what that was.
One of the factions didn't have to be built.
Well...
I wasn't there then!
But you do know that.
But you don't have to, right?
Yeah, yeah.
Um... Well... We don't...
peak of the time before that.
Before the age of recollection.
That would be accurate to assume, right?
Like, I don't think where you go, we...
Roll your history.
Okay.
Because as you, the only, the longest age you've given me access to was recollection.
It's where you, that's common knowledge, but you can... For my people?
Yeah.
Okay.
Uh, well...
You go, your uncommon goes even further back.
Yeah.
Uh, 15.
15?
You got it.
Um, yeah, there was an age before the Age of Reclamation, which is called the Age of Ash and Silence, which before that age, that age is marked by the end of the ancient empire, or the ancients.
That was the end of the ancient, the Age of Ash and Silence.
Yeah.
So, ancients, poof, gone.
Age of Ash and Silence begins?
Yes.
Okay.
So there was before the reclamation.
I knew about the reclamation.
Well, I knew the reclamation happened.
I don't actually know much about it.
And that symbol is an upside down T. Age of reclamation is the E and E. Man, I'm just figuring out stuff about the age of conquest here.
You're well beyond me.
As far as I understand- This is a for some, yeah, okay, you're gonna know it, no, no.
As far as I would understand, we are not the ancients.
Like, the society I existed is not the same, because we've talked about what types of technology capabilities I've seen before, and we don't have that.
There's one exception, though.
I know who that is, yes.
So, I could reasonably assume that person was there.
But, no, not the rest of us.
And they don't share those knowledge gaps.
That's true, yeah.
Yeah, okay.
But that's kind of more like, we are not the same civilization.
Maybe we're descendants of them or something?
I don't know.
How long was the Age of Conquest?
327 years.
Dwarves and elves both agree on this point for entirely different reasons.
Yeah.
The elves agree.
The elves think that they're the descendants because they're, you know, awesome.
Common elves are my elves.
All elves.
All elves, okay.
Genuinely.
Not always, but they just be a little stuck up.
They're stuck up elves.
So of course you're elves.
Okay.
So my elves think we are.
Yeah, absolutely.
Okay.
All right.
If you're even a little stuck up, right?
Like, who else is going to live that long?
Right?
The dwarves agree with it because only elves are that dumb to ruin their entire civilization.
Which is a back-handed compliment if you ever had one.
Um, okay.
So.
The oldest age I have ever heard of, past that of the Ancients, which I do not know how long that's inspired of, was the Age of Ash and Silence.
That is a rather impressive name.
That was prior to the Age of Reclamation.
And presumably the cause of the Age of Reclamation.
Something bad happens, you need to rebuild.
A name like Ash and Silence sounds like something bad happened.
Maybe for a long time.
The fall of the ancient civilization.
Interesting, okay.
And then the wake of that fall, and then the rebuilding.
I'm very happy that I encountered you on this ancient investigation, the expedition.
This is very good.
I have seen one of their cities.
Like, in tact?
Like, not runes?
No, a rune.
Oh, okay.
A rune, um...
very long time ago.
I wouldn't say that.
I would say when I was young, uh, I set foot in a name.
Actually, do I still have that sketch?
Yeah.
I'll show you the sketch.
And then I mean, it is a sketch of what appears.
It looks like the Hoover dam.
It looks like what you would imagine if somebody took a mountain
cut in half, flipped it upside down, built a city on top, and that whole mountain fell down on its side 45 degrees, and you just see the rebel of this enormous city in collapse and ruin falling down the slope of that mountain.
Did that fall out of the sky?
I believe so.
I suspect that's the logical assumption.
This is insane.
It's gone now.
Like the little ones are gone.
It's been... Time erodes a lot of things.
Do you guys know mountains?
Do you guys, any of you know geography?
Is that a wall?
Nature?
Probably nature.
It's probably nature.
That's me!
I've been explaining...
But I'm not there.
When I went back, what I understand is that the mountain somehow overcame it.
It basically eroded into a mountain.
Yeah, eroded into it.
Because it's like, if you take the mountain and you split it slant, gravity eventually won.
Yeah.
And so the thing started collapsing down.
So unfortunately, it's no longer a... Low nature.
Low geography.
Am I there now?
No, you're not there.
You can roll.
It's the catch, so... And I have the sketch of the... 14.
Yeah, you got it.
of the mountain afterwards.
You know exactly what mountain she's talking about.
The Lone Mountain.
Oh.
You just kind of think about maps, and it just comes to you realizing that must be the Lone Mountain.
Especially when she showed you the sketch.
Yeah, I have sketches of it.
Yeah.
So you see the sketch, and you merely... Just kind of like this peaceful style.
That looks like it.
Okay.
And the Lone Mountain, it's distinct because it's alone, which doesn't make sense.
Yeah.
Usually not how mountains form.
Not usually how mountains form.
Unless they're volcanoes.
And that is the name, the Lone Mountain.
And the name, since you wrote it, comes from people refer it as the Lone Mountain, as the mountain is alone.
And that's where the name came from, because people would just say, I'm heading north to the Lone Mountain.
So the description became the name.
But that's as far as history as I can understand it goes.
There's at least one person who knows more than I do.
Is this a person we could ask?
Are they still around?
They will always be around.
I could ask them if I ever returned home.
What they would tell me would depend on the room.
How old are you?
I mean, I'm several ages old, but... You're probably just thinking ages, not years.
I would think in age.
I could give you an age.
I was, um...
I was decreed, really, to be born in...
Decreed?
Okay.
In the age of reclamation.
I think.
I can't tell with the lines, unfortunately, in the way I have it.
printed out.
Mine doesn't have the years.
Yeah, I am so excited.
Yeah, I'm sorry, I should have put the... where is it?
Sabertles versus Wade towards the back.
Is it the other one?
Yeah.
It's three pages.
Oh, three pages.
Here it is, here you go.
Yeah, age of reclamation.
Yeah, I was born in the age of reclamation.
But not early.
No, later.
Later.
Later on.
Towards the end of the age of reclamation.
Somewhere between 2,000 and 2,500 years old.
I'm a fourth generation.
Fourth generation.
like ever.
Yes?
From... You can write your knowledge on elves in the world.
Sure.
Hey guys, what'd I miss?
I mean, yeah, you're probably coming up about this time.
If it's a history, that is a six.
You don't know the exact age elves in the world live?
It's not bad.
You've... No.
You never... Or you could tell Marwin later.
You... they... they... Elves have long lives?
Nowhere close.
Yeah.
You don't know exactly, but nowhere close.
It's day two, they're probably full of shit.
I have to add a character, that's frustrating.
I know, I know.
You think Marwen's ever getting out of there?
But the other thing I'm just gonna throw out there, did you show both sketches?
The first sketch, right?
And the second sketch would have taken hundreds, if not near a thousand years apart.
Just based on the erosion and stuff?
Right.
Yeah.
You were talking about literally the time to take for an entire city to become entirely one with earth.
Right.
I mean, it could be an elaborate hoax, but like, is that really the simpler answer?
Okay.
Do you leave?
Oh yeah.
I think Bazzar just kind of stops for a while.
There's just a lot of silence.
We need to check your bags.
We check every bag.
Oh, that's understandable.
You'll have to forgive me.
Um, I did some harvesting earlier today.
I'm going to pull up this baby spider corpse first.
Um, yeah, I've got that.
The marrow bone here.
Hold these and I'm going to, I'm going to keep kind of pulling things.
No, no, no, no.
There's good stuff on there.
I can keep on loading my bag if you want.
It's going to take a while.
What an advantage.
I will make it average your normal difficulty, not hard.
Oh no.
I'm gonna burn my heroic inspiration for the day.
Does that mean we will both or just one?
Just one.
No.
Okay.
They got me up to a 14.
Otherwise I would have just failed with a nine.
No, no, just take it back.
Just take, take.
Take this, take this, take this back.
Thank you, sorry.
I should be better organized next time for a search.
No food in the library.
This isn't food, these are spoon ingredients.
I am calling it food, no food in the library.
Next time.
Okay.
I mean, to be fair, there is honey in my bag and some...
I have to go restable here before it gets too late.
See you tomorrow.
Will you wait for the tomorrow one?
Yes, this is the third one.
Alright, I'm gonna- I'm gonna take Lear back to the stables and that's where she's gonna wait for you.
Yeah, that's where she's gonna- You're gonna have a mindblown- Cafe across the street, kind of just staring off into the distance.
Just like, right- invisible like- Are you gonna finish that?
No.
I'll just take- take probably that cap eaten pastry and mug in front of you.
Are we gonna do that for a while?
There's- There's a lot.
Yes?
Do you think Sabriel is a liar?
Like a real bad liar?
Like really good at it?
Or maybe...
I think Sabriel's a hypocrite.
But it's not the same thing as a liar.
I think what they believe is an
always what they say.
Oh, I see.
That's a hypocrite thing, okay.
Yes.
Why?
I don't think they're a liar.
I think I'm a liar.
Have you heard of the age of ash and silence?
Okay.
No.
Because there's Age of Trade, Rean, and the Age of Conquest before that.
Is that as far back as you go?
Yes.
I don't... that was the Age of Ashen sounds before that?
The Age of Roads?
The Age of Reformation?
I mean that one not a lot of people know about.
Well before that there was the apparently
The Age of Ash and Silence, and I was really hoping you'd be able to confirm that, or disconfirm that.
Um... Sabriel told me some things that I'm not entirely sure I believe, but there's, like, evidence, so it's, like, kind of scary.
How old do you think Sabriel is?
Sabriel?
Yes.
I don't know.
How old do elves get?
Hundreds of years, yes, but not more like all of the years.
I think Zebra made it sound like they are all of the years old.
Not literally, but pretty close.
Like that age of Ashen Silence was like a little bit before that time kind of thing.
Like they said age of reclamation, like two ages past what you know of.
Two ages past what I know?
Like before, yes.
Okay, so here's a question, because I just learned this today.
So Age of Conquest was like 300 years long, or all the ages 300 years are?
Age of Conquest was something like a thousand or something?
I don't know.
It's something like that.
Okay, so they're not all even.
It might be a thousand years from, like back from now?
Yeah.
Or it might have been a thousand?
I don't know.
Okay.
Something like that.
I'm gonna ask a different question you have asked her.
Does it matter?
No, I don't think it does.
So you're arguing about ages and numbers and...
It's interesting.
It can be worth asking about further, but at the end of the day, it's just... Sabriel is Sabriel.
That is a good way of thinking of it.
We do know their people.
There isn't a lot of information out on them.
They're not typically out in the world, but then again, neither are your people.
Maybe this is an opportunity for each of us to learn about those cultures and try to keep an open mind, a very open mind.
Yes, you're right.
I tried to come out here with the idea of the open mind and I have not always been good about that.
need to be more understanding that not every place is like home and that most places are in fact nothing like home.
And that is okay, I guess.
Last question.
How old are you?
Oh, I'm 20.
Okay, thank you.
If it matters, 25.
25.
Good to know.
We do track birthdays
But that is a thing.
Look at that.
If we don't have things like that, there's a lot of information in that library.
Massive.
Also, they don't allow food.
That seems- Do you seem too worried about your honey?
Yeah, I need to go harvest a spider before it goes bad.
Hop on the butt.
I will.
And ask to see Sabriel's drawing of the low mountain.
Ooh, they draw?
Well, the heavy drawing.
Okay.
I don't know, but that was the implication.
But take a look at the mountain.
It was a good drawing.
Do you see the sketches?
I guess we're gonna go meet up.
Get back up at the tavern.
I will step out.
Well, okay.
We still gotta go find a guide for tomorrow.
I got something for you.
I will dig around in my bag, I will pull out the holy book and put it in front of you.
I don't know if it's gonna appear blank or not to you, but I figure this is worth a shot.
You didn't get this from me.
First thing immediately.
This is your book.
You own it.
You don't know how you know you own it, but it is yours.
I mean, I've written a lot of books, but yeah, no, this is probably not what I've written.
No, no, no, no, no.
You feel like this is your book.
Like there's a lotus on it.
Isn't there?
No.
Okay.
You don't recognize this in a book or anything about this book.
Okay.
But it is yours.
You don't know how you know.
Some things just are.
I'm going to look at this back in my room.
Okay.
So I'm not going to open it at the table, but I'll finish my conversation with Marwin first and then I'm going to open it.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Um,
Did you find what you were looking for?
The start, but not enough.
There's a lot I don't know.
It's what I'm realizing.
I think there's a lot all of us don't know.
But if there's something I can help you with, I will.
So I was talking with Bazgar earlier and he implied you may have been around for a while.
What do you know about the Drow?
Is it fair to say nothing?
You never were in your lands.
I know...
I'm going to say that they are like a cousin to the Elms.
Is that a French mention?
Yeah.
Okay.
They're considered a cousin to my people or were, but they were not, not considered of Alarith's loving children.
That's a nice way to put it.
Alarith?
Alarith is the goddess that I worship.
Oh,
If I had important part there.
Oh, did you?
Okay.
What's do you know?
I'm being careful with how much I say.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
You know, we're a Larrith and Loaf related.
As far as I can unconcerned, both is just an inferior nothing, right?
Like,
They wouldn't be the same.
You have to clarify to me if there's any associations, because aesthetically I don't believe there are.
I'm processing information.
It's okay.
I understand you have to think back to your youth.
I somehow stole a pen of yours.
Or maybe I stole yours then?
Well, those will be Christians.
It's more than I've had many conversations and I need to figure out what is and what is not.
Alright.
I literally just realized I was writing in black and I was like, wait a second, how did I get a second pen?
You might have taken it from Nicole.
I have a bunch of those around, I don't know.
Oh, love is meaningless.
Meaningless?
It's purposeless.
So you...
What I gathered from reading today, the drought were dangerous.
But they don't seem any more dangerous than any other conquest of civilization.
So why did they have to go away?
I don't know.
I've never had an indication that we were a part of their disappearance.
Oh, you weren't.
I would be curious to find out what happened to them.
I don't know why they were not a favorite branch of our family, but... Not everyone can be, I assume.
I guess not.
um it's it's a start if we end up with more time i may spend some more time in the library i'm very curious about the um the magic of other groups the puriams necromancy the spirit shamanism i keep hearing about these things but i don't understand it i would like to know
the various magics are capable of at their utmost power.
Now, I'm not an arcane caster.
I have no talent for that.
But your curiosity towards magics is something I would like to know as well.
What are the most powerful feats
we are capable of.
That's a dangerous line of questioning, Sabriel.
I would advise you, unless you have good purpose, not to go digging.
I'm not capable of casting such a thing.
But I'd also be interested in knowing what the most powerful tools and weapons would be as well.
I need to know if mortals can slay gods.
then the one thing I can tell you is there's no such thing as gods.
C. Because they just go their separate ways in disagreement.
Yeah, I think that would be the place to end it.
I want to go look at my book.
and so excited, and you get this book, which you know is yours.
You don't know how you know it's yours.
You know it's yours.
And you very carefully open up that book.
You find also blank pages.
And you go through all very frustratingly, every one blank.
Your own knowledge of religion.
Um, I believe it's a 21.
You pass.
This answer is very frustrating to you or will be very frustrating, but I understand it is the answer.
You have literally no knowledge, reference, records, or understanding of any symbol on the front cover of this page.
It means nothing to you, but it is your book.
You know it's your book.
I don't know what to do with it.
Fill it again.
If we didn't know it was a divine object, if it was just magic in general, like arcane, it could have been the dumbest prank book ever.
The book that fills you with confidence that it's your book, but it's just like a journal that's right in it.
That'd be amazing!
This is the most enchanted journal!
That makes you think it's your book.
If I do try writing in it, does anything happen?
It disappears.
It doesn't feel right.
It doesn't make sense.
I'm just going to sit with it and think about like possible ways to uncover or investigate it eventually.
Okay.
It may not be a quick like thing, but the fun of the book is beautiful.
Sunburst is the best way I can describe it, radiating out to the outer limbs, but doesn't really mean sympathically anything.
It could be a sun, it could be a moon, it could be really any sort of glowing doodad, doesn't mean anything to you.
I don't recognize the symbol.
There's no writing in it.
I don't have the ability to like magically discern anything from it as far as I know.
I guess that's something I could have told you is it is magical and it's filled with conjuration magic.
Conjuration magic.
That's all I know of my current skillset.
I don't know what that means in the context of the book but it's interesting.
Now your character's feeling frustrated too.
Oh yeah, I think Sabrio's is frustrated to come, feels like to the edge of a lot of things revealing a lot more than they ever really have even admitted to themselves.
And then to kind of be stumped
This means something.
The door is closed.
Yeah, the door is closed for now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So we'll see what happens.
You're going to have to, you're going to have to find a way to figure it out.
Yes, but Sabriel doesn't do things quickly.
You're right.
She does not.
Yeah.
So like this is going to be, I think a very like,
prolonged thing of spending time with it, going back to it, trying to read it, trying to see if like dispelling magics or revealing magics work over time.
But like it won't be a... Sabriel's not the type to like throw their head against a problem repeatedly.
So you sit there with the book?
Yeah, just sit there with it.
Tell me a religion check.
an idea immediately.
That's it.
It's not helpful to you at the moment.
Um, 19.
Wait, hang on.
That might be, let me make sure it's a plus four, plus five.
Plus four.
So 19.
Nothing the first day.
Okay.
Okay.
What happens then?
Um, is Sabriel like working on that for a couple of hours?
Um, it would probably be something they do for at least an hour before they trance.
Okay.
So... Marwyn will take time before turning in for the day.
Or when we go to turn in for the day, I will take the time, the two hours necessary to scribe mage armor into my book.
Okay.
Which is completely on my own.
So they are not witness to that process.
Alright, fair enough.
Um, then we will need to get a guide for ourselves.
Yes.
We're going to go into the room.
I guess that's one thing I can share when we do dinner that night.
I did look into the different ruins in the area.
The one that was recommended to us in the Valley is a good starting ruin.
It has been picked over quite a bit, but it's where most adventures start off.
There are more scattered ruins in the forest.
They often require days.
of exploration away from the city, which makes them risky and time consuming.
And there's one that's known in the mountain itself that opens up inside, but it's a lot riskier.
Not every adventure goes and comes back out.
Given our current skills, I think we should start at the valley.
I disagree.
You think we should tackle a higher level?
I do, because here's the thing.
I have big goals.
I have laid these out to you.
I am sure a lot of these normal adventuring types that are like us also have big goals.
They do not accomplish them, because they start in the valley.
You need to reach higher.
You need to go as
as far as you can, as fast as you can, to see what you can do.
And if you cannot do it, then you will not make your big goals.
Small steps aren't important, but they need to be bounding steps, not tiny little rabbit steps.
Vazgar, there are experienced adventurers that go into the other ruin and don't come back out.
I'm sure a lot of those who don't come back out are also
I keep it with that exact idea.
I don't know...
I'm sure you've seen a lot of different mortars in your tribe.
Can you honestly tell me you are one of the best?
Hell yeah.
I know the best.
Then is the way to become the best getting yourself killed?
No, of course not.
Let's start small.
Take our time.
I'm not good with patience.
Hey.
I do not have a million years.
After two days, we gain some coin and that's where we can go explore a ruin.
Let's explore a ruin and see what coin we can get out of that, what experience, and then maybe that will open up other doors.
You are reasonable and my head says I should agree with you and my heart says this is frustrating and
But we'll get there.
You make a point that is valid and like...
I want to see the mountain ruin too.
Believe me, I do.
But I need to make sure I get there on my piece.
I'm not going to leave until I've done that.
Sabriel, I don't think, is in any hurry to leave.
But it does make me think if there's a ruin on top of the mountain, could it not be a similar situation to the Lone Mountain?
The what?
Oh, it was, uh, Lennart knows on Far Toa West and that the floating city, like, that fell.
Fell.
Ancients apparently had ridiculous magic.
Impossible magics.
This is why I want to check them out.
I want to learn this stuff.
Not the cast magic, but to gain from it.
Interesting.
And that's still out there?
Well, the Lone Mountain now does not have at least visible ruins on it, but Sabriel saw when it did, and has sketches from when it did, and then later... That's the evidence you're talking about.
And then later when it was less there, but the erosion looks right.
Unless Sabriel is like a really weird con artist, I don't get what the angle could possibly be, but unless they're like...
It seems real.
I can't argue against it.
I think I've been as honest as I could be at the time.
I agree, I think you have.
You've all revealed certain things.
I'm flabbergasted, but like, no, I do not doubt you.
Flying cities, who would have thought?
Seems very impractical.
It's hard to attack.
We don't know enough about the angels to understand their methods of thinking.
There's very, very little on them.
I did look.
Very, very little.
Nobody knows what they looked like or who they were.
Well... We can try the lesser.
I suspect we will find nothing of value.
But we know that going in.
We might
Like you said, get valuable experience fighting as a group and learning together.
We might get lucky.
We still might find enough to then hopefully fund another expedition.
Otherwise we'll do some odd jobs and we'll make it back up again.
Yes, I suppose.
I don't believe Vazgar wants to stay here forever.
I do not.
But...
Are you really going to travel in the winter?
Why not?
I forget, you don't care about that.
Can you give it a month?
You're working with us for a month.
Build up strength, build up some queen, see the mountain together.
How long does it take to travel from...
It would take at least six weeks to travel from here to the other side of the park continent.
Um, it's...
Two weeks to Marrowgate by Crow.
Two weeks to Atheneon by Crow.
So it's four weeks all the way there.
So that would be about... Like if someone were at speed, it'd be four weeks.
It could go in a straight line.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So the Lonon is a little closer, but not that much closer.
No, no.
No, that wasn't my concern.
We should stay no longer than six to eight weeks here, if we intend to travel together.
That is the longest I can remain.
You're very good at ominous statements.
I don't think you intend them, but you're very good at them.
You should say that Sabriel cannot remain here for longer than six to eight weeks.
I can agree to that.
This is a valid time limit.
Alright, we will start small, and we will take little tiny rabbit steps.
I'm going as high as we can go, but... Oh, I could have argued against it, and you would have been on my side.
Damn it!
You need to speak up quicker.
No.
Well, let's get a good night's rest and then in the morning we need to find an awful dwarf.
For the beginning part?
It's advised.
I figured we'd need one for like the higher place.
I think if we went to the more dangerous places, we'd definitely look for one.
But for the Easy Valley one that everybody's been to is probably less important.
I mean, the advice we were given, though, was to have a dwarf guy and start in that valley.
Did you do everything the way you're supposed to?
No, I mean, I gave you a book, didn't I?
That's true.
I wasn't supposed to do that.
I think you were, actually.
Maybe so.
I try to listen to the advice I'm given.
It's usually given for good purpose.
Not all the time are very good advice.
Like sometimes you just need to not listen to them because they are wrong.
Well, how about this though?
If we find an old dwarf, we can start developing a rapport with that individual who can then take us to the mountain later.
That is not a bad thought.
I think we can find one.
If we can find one.
And if we can't, we don't spend too long stressing over it and we just find somebody who can just do it.
But we will look first.
Yes.
Acceptable.
All right, we get a good night's rest and now we'll set on the night.
You look like you could use the transient room.
Just thinking we still don't know very much about you.
What would you like to know?
Nothing I can get at.
Then I don't understand what you're complaining about.
Observing.
Not complaining.
Okay.
Are you guys done?
Probably just the tavern downstairs.
This would have been a dinner.
Yeah, I think we have like a regular table at this point.
Yeah, yeah, it's very fair.
It's very fair.
Yeah.
Well, let's spend some more time together.
Keep working.
If you have a specific question, maybe I'll answer.
Good night, Sabriel Basmar.
Good night.
You see, Zachary had a very specific question on his mind, but he's not here.
He is in a different campaign.
from the south west.
My dad was a fisherman.
He knew everything about me at this point.
Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm.
Fisherman's daughters often have to throw fire from their fingertips.
It's normal.
Magic is a family business.
I talked about these books.
You did mention that.
I told you guys loads.
I asked a lot of questions about Drow.
So I think, yeah, I think the goal next will be looking for, if we can find an oath, what is it?
Oath hold dwarf.
That would be ideal, because the idea is to get to know someone.
Even if they're just taking us right now to the baby ruins, getting to know a dwarf who could then take us to better ruin later would be good.
But if we can't find an oath hold dwarf,
just a guide in general will do.
Yeah.
And then I think the question is whether or not we're going to keep playing tonight or just kind of next time.
Correct, because it's one in the morning, but I also know Jeff wants to do a combat as a fighter.
If we do it...
If we'd done the spider combat, that would have been great.
It would have been still in 2025.
It would have been 2025, yeah.
Doesn't count.
That said, is it crazy to play for a couple hours tomorrow?
We had already told my mom we were probably not back till the afternoon.
Maybe Joe just gets to sit there and listen to us argue and bicker in character.
I'm good.
I'd be happy to play them all.
Is that funny?
So if you want to prepare our first Ruben dive tomorrow.
Yeah, absolutely.
I love it.
More than happy to.
Yeah, we got everyone starting to head down the path of discovering a little bit more about the background.
We got a mystery book with blank pages and sadly, even you are locked from it.
We're getting a little bit more about the, how's your story progressing?
I guess you got a little bit more about the dysfunctional side of a democratic city.
The bad kind of democracy.
The bad kind of democracy.
You question how they even won that war.
They really do.
Yeah.
Well, necessity drives things that work that shouldn't have worked.
And you're getting direction on how to find the ruins.
So yeah, you're making progress.
And Christine, well, you, real life, gotta have a more insight about some of those holes on the whole call-down.
Well, yeah, this is the funny thing I've turned out.
I'm playing catch-up.
I think I knew the least about the world, which I think I had called to you two beforehand.
About what?
That I figured I knew the least about the setting.
Oh, yeah, that's true.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So Marwin is playing catch-up right now.
What's actually happening.
Yeah.
You were part of a very far away, reclusive civilization.
Yeah, here's the funny thing of the things I do know about have zero relevance to the rest of the world.
Is what I'm gathering.
Yeah, by and large.
But then you have a lot of hooks, too.
Mm-hmm.
The witch, the ender horde got a different sort of benefit.
Yes.
I need to make a note.
I do want to ask you at some point why you think there are no gods.
For me?
Yeah.
I'm taking Andrew Hortwich's coming across as very mysterious.
I mean, I don't know.
We don't know any.
It's true.
You know we haven't said anything, did you?
No, we don't know.
No, okay.
Joe, remember the advice I just gave them?
Yes!
Yeah, no, I think that's the thing is...
I got you.
Vazgar kind of opened up initially, Sabros opened up like trying to assist, but mostly because they had to rely on you to help them get a piece of information or to start.
And then we...
we don't, we didn't get the same sort of like open from you at any point yet.
So that's- It's day two guys, it's okay.
I know, I know, but that's, that's the tension.
I think, I think the prime place for those things to be revealed will be when we're ancient ruin diving.
That's where Joe has an opportunity to put something in my path that then kind of like, like you being barred from the library, you had to open up.
That's, I think, his best shot at putting something where Morrowind may open up.
Well, part of it is, I think, part of it is, remember, we built them kind of like as foils anyway.
So some of these little, like, jives or the way they view each other is leading to some interesting back and forth.
but I think eventually it will smooth out and they'll be really actually solid, but like, it's kind of an interesting dynamic right now.
Well, right now there's a lot of tension because I don't know what comes across to you.
There's not a lot of trust.
Yeah, well you've already heard Marvin thinks you're hypocritical.
Yeah.
In a lot of ways.
I don't think I'm a hypocrite.
But then the other thing is some of the things you're trying to deal with seem like, to her,
They're not problems.
What's your concern?
And then your solutions are bad ideas.
Like what?
We might touch on it more, some, but like we had the exchange about you were asking about the most powerful magic.
Yeah.
Bad idea.
Yeah, this is, my pick up is, not necessarily bad idea objectively, bad idea from the Marwen POV.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's interesting.
I'm still getting a feel for this character because there are times where obviously she's definitely more naive, doesn't know what's going on.
Like for that scene, I was trying to convey like there's more that's not naive, more when that is more.
Yeah, I
The conference I feel like I know what I'm talking about.
I think the thing that hit hard is that was like the most vulnerable moment Sabriel has had possibly in their entire very guarded life.
Yeah, and you got shot.
And I got shot down instantly and hard.
And like basically told I'm dumb for thinking that way.
Aw, and then you were handed a book that's
Then the knife got twisted further.
Oh yeah, no, it's very frustrating.
You know, there's a thing.
Good hero story, the hero gotta fall.
We're all level one, so we gotta get a few levels on our belts.
Right now it's all about just putting down those hooks, those fillers, those things that are gonna progress the story.
Yeah.
You shouldn't have the book.
From the DM perspective, you shouldn't have the book.
You're a little early.
Well, some of that's funny because level one is a great time to drop something.
that they shouldn't have, because then it creates so much more afterwards.
Yeah, that's why I really debated long and hard if I should give it to you, and I finally brought it down.
Oh, I'll go by chance.
If Christine goes investigation, you get the book.
If she doesn't, you don't get it.
And she went investigation, and it's like, OK, I made the decision before she rolled.
Sometimes a hobbit finds a little silly magic ring.
Yeah.
The book was planned, you just weren't ready.
You have something way advanced before you should have it.
So you can know that.
So don't be frustrated if you don't solve it right away.
No, that's fair.
You have an artifact that you shouldn't have.
Which relish?
If I can ever actually do anything with it, I think I will.
But yeah.
I think you can think of it more of like,
Having it ahead of whatever the DM was playing, me, means that you can figure it out.
I'm hoping, yeah.
Right, like you, you have, that's why I told you, that's why probably when I try to say like, yeah this book is yours, like you know it's yours, to drive you to figure it out.
There's a reason for it.
And we can pool our resources in character.
I will say you probably won't be able to figure it out alone.
I will say the other funny thing, Nicole, is for as much as they might rate on each other right now and be opposites, I suspect Sabriel and Maro are going to be important to each other's stories.
For instance, they're not supposed to know the magic on it.
So...
